A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from nominating any more Labour life Peers is to be made at a meeting of Labour M Ps tomorrow . Mr. Michael Foot has put down a resolution on the subject and he is to be backed by Mr. Will Griffiths , M P for Manchester Exchange . A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from nominating any more Labour life Peers is to be made at a meeting of Labour 0M Ps tomorrow . Mr. Michael Foot has put down a resolution on the subject and he is to be backed by Mr. Will Griffiths , 0M P for Manchester Exchange . Though they may gather some Left-wing support , a large majority of Labour M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot-Griffiths resolution . Mr. Foot's line will be that as Labour M Ps opposed the Government Bill which brought life peers into existence , they should not now put forward nominees . He believes that the House of Lords should be abolished and that Labour should not take any steps which would appear to " prop up " an out-dated institution . Though they may gather some Left-wing support , a large majority of Labour M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot- Griffiths resolution . Mr. Foot's line will be that as Labour M Ps opposed the Government Bill which brought life peers into existence , they should not now put forward nominees . He believes that the House of Lords should be abolished and that Labour should not take any steps which would appear to " prop up " an out- Though they may gather some Left-wing support , a large majority of Labour 0M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot-Griffiths resolution . Mr. Foot's line will be that as Labour 0M Ps opposed the Govern- ment Bill which brought life peers into existence , they should not now put forward nominees . He believes that the House of Lords should be abolished and that Labour should not take any steps which would appear to " prop up " an out-dated institution . Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and Peeresses have been created . Most Labour sentiment would # still favour the abolition of the House of Lords , but while it remains Labour has to have an adequate number of members . THE two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky , the Federal Premier . Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and Peeresses have been created . Most Labour sentiment would still favour the abolition of the House of Lords , but while it remains Labour has to have an adequate number of members . THE two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky , the Federal Premier . Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and # Peeresses have been created . Most Labour sentiment would still favour the abolition of the House of Lords , but while it remains Labour has to have an adequate number of members . THE two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky , the Federal Premier . Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independence Party ( 280,000 members ) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African National Congress ( 400,000 ) will meet in London today to discuss a common course of action . Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans getting an elected majority in Northern Rhodesia , but the Colonial Secretary , Mr. Iain Macleod , is insisting on a policy of change . Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independence Party ( 280,000 members ) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African National Congress ( 400,000 ) will meet in London today to discuss a common course of action . Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans getting an elected majority in Northern Rhodesia , but the Colonial Secretary , Mr. Iain Macleod , is insisting on a policy of change . Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independence Party ( 280,000 members ) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African National Congress ( 400,000 ) will meet in London today to discuss a common course of action . Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans getting an elected majority in Northern Rhodesia , but the Colonial Secretary , Mr. Iain Macleod , is insisting on a policy of change . Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting the London talks on the Protectorate's future . Said Mr. Nkumbula last night : " We want to discuss what to do if the British Government gives in to Sir Roy and the talks fall through . There are bound to be demonstrations . " Yesterday Sir Roy's chief aide , Mr. Julius Greenfield , telephoned his chief a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan at Chequers . Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting the London talks on the Protectorate's future . Said Mr. Nkumbula last night : " We want to discuss what to do if the British demonstrations . " Yesterday Sir Roy's chief aide , Mr. Julius Greenfield , telephoned his chief a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan at Chequers . Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting the London talks on the Protectorate's future . Said Mr. Nkumbula last night : " We want to discuss what to do if the British Government gives in to Sir Roy and the talks fall through . There are bound to be demonstrations . " Yesterday Sir Roy's chief aide , Mr. Julius Greenfield , telephoned his chief a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan at Chequers . Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at Lancaster House despite the crisis which had blown up . He has now revealed his full plans to the Africans and Liberals attending . These plans do not give the Africans the overall majority they are seeking . African delegates are studying them today . The conference will meet to discuss the function of a proposed House of Chiefs . Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at Lancaster House despite the crisis which had blown up . He has now revealed his full plans to the Africans and Liberals attending . These plans do not give the Africans the overall majority they are seeking . African delegates are studying them today . The conference will meet to discuss the function of a proposed House of Chiefs . Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at Lancaster House despite the crisis which had blown up . He has now revealed his full plans to the Africans and Liberals attending . These plans do not give the Africans the overall majo- rity they are seeking . African delegates are studying them today . The conference will meet to discuss the function of a proposed House of Chiefs . MR. IAIN MACLEOD , the Colonial Secretary , denied in the Commons last night that there have been secret negotiations on Northern Rhodesia's future . The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has been boycotted by the two main settlers' parties - the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party . But representatives of Sir Roy Welensky , Prime Minister of the Central African Federation , went to Chequers at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan . MR. IAIN MACLEOD , the Colonial Secretary , denied in the Commons last night that there have been secret negotiations on Northern Rhodesia's future . The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has been boycotted by the two main settlers' parties - the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party . But representatives of Sir Roy Welensky , Prime Minister of the Central African Federation , went to Chequers at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan . Mr. Iain Macleod , the Colonial Secretary , denied in the Commons last night that there have been secret negotiations on the Northern Rhodesia's future . The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has been boycotted by the two main settlers' parties - the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party . But representatives of Sir Roy Welensky , Prime Minister of the Central African Federation , went to Chequers at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan . Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation . Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end meeting . But he told M Ps yesterday : " I have no knowledge of secret negotiations . " He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal Government . But the final decision remained with the British Government . Mr. James Callaghan , Labour's Colonial spokesman , said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by refusing to sit round the conference table . Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation . Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end meeting . But he told M Ps yesterday : " I have no knowledge of secret negotiations . " He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal Government . But the final decision remained with the British Government . Mr. James Callaghan , Labour's Colonial spokesman , said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by refusing to sit round the conference table . Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Fede- ration . Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end meeting . But he told M Ps yesterday : " I have no knowledge of secret negotiations . " He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal Government . Mr. James Callaghan , Labour's Colonial spokesman , said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by refusing to sit round the conference table . Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian parties had refused to attend the talks because Sir Roy had found messages sent from the Government were " unsatisfac- tory . " African delegates to the talks yester- day called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his negotiations with Sir Roy's representative , Mr. Julius Greenfield . He was at Che- quers last week-end . They said they regarded with " growing anger " the " gross and unconstitutional " interference by Sir Roy's Federal Government in the talks . Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian parties had refused to attend the talks because Sir Roy had found messages sent from the Government were " unsatisfactory . " African delegates to the talks yesterday called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his negotiations with Sir Roy's representative , Mr. Julius Greenfield . He was at Chequers last week-end . They said they regarded with " growing anger " the gross and unconstitutional " interference by Sir Roy's Federal Government in the talks . Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume today . President Kennedy today defended the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister . It has aroused strong opposition from the anti-Negro senators of the Deep South . The negro is Mr. Robert Weaver of New York . One of his tasks will be to see there is no racial discrimination in Government and State housing projects . B.Kaufmann Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume today . PRESIDENT KENNEDY today defended the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister . It has aroused strong opposition from the anti-Negro senators of the Deep South . The negro is Mr. Robert # Weaver of New York . One of his tasks will be to see there is no racial discrimination in Government and State housing projects . Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume today . PRESIDENT KENNEDY today defended the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister . It has aroused strong opposition from the anti-Negro senators of the Deep South . The negro is Mr. Robert Weaver of New York . One of his tasks will be to see there is no racial discrimination in Government and State housing projects . Senator Allen Ellender of Louisiana sparked off the opposition by telling a television audience it was " current Washington gossip " that Weaver once had Communist affiliations . The Senate Banking Committee , which is headed by another Southern Senator - Willis Robertson , of Virginia - met today in closed session to discuss Weaver's appointment . Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several complaints about Weaver's loyalty . Senator Allen Ellender , of Louisiana , sparked off the opposition by telling a television audience it was " current Washington gossip " that Weaver once had Communist affiliations . The Senate Banking Committee , which is headed by another Southern Senator - Willis Robertson , of Virginia - met today in closed session to discuss Weaver's appointment . Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received Senator Allen Ellender , of Louisiana , sparked off the opposition by telling a television audience it was " current Washington gossip " that Weaver once had Communist affilia- tions . The Senate Banking Committee , which is headed by another Southern Senator - Willis Robertson , of Virginia - met today in closed session to discuss Weaver's appointment . Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several complaints about Weaver's loyalty . He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's alleged association with organisations black- listed by the Government . Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of In- vestigation had reported on Mr. Weaver . He believed he would perform " outstanding service " in his post . Senator Robertson's committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's nomination before it can be con- # sidered by the full Senate . He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's alleged association with organisations black- listed by the Government . Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of Investigation had reported on Mr. Weaver . He believed he would perform " outstanding service " in his post . Senator Robertson's committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's nomination before it can be considered by the full Senate . He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's alleged association with organisations black-listed by the Government . Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of Investigation had reported on Mr. Weaver . He believed he would perform " outstanding service " in his post . Senator Robertson's committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's nomination before it can be considered by the full Senate . PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough over West Germany's cash offer to help America's balance of payments position . He said bluntly in Washington yester- day that the offer - 357million - was not good enough . And he indicated that his Government would try to get Germany to pay more . He did not mention personal talks with Dr. Adenauer , the West German Chancellor . PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough over West Germany's cash offer to help America's balance of payments position . He said bluntly in Washington yesterday that the offer - 357million - was not good enough . And he indicated that his Government would try to get Germany to pay more . He did not mention personal talks with Dr. Adenauer , the West German Chancellor . PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough over West Germany's cash offer to help America's balance of payments position He said bluntly in Washington yesterday that the offer - 357million - was not good enough . And he indicated that his Government would try to get Germany to pay more . He did not mention personal talks with Dr. Adenauer , the West German Chancellor . But he said discussions " on a higher level than in the past " might be useful . The President will probably discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano , the West German Foreign Minister , who is due in Washington next week . A big slice of Germany's " aid " # is the early payment of a 210million debt to America . United States officials quickly point out that this is money due to America anyway . But he said discussions " on a higher level than in the past " might be useful . The President will probably discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano , the West German Foreign Minister , who is due in Washington next week . A big slice of Germany's " aid " is the early payment of a 210million debt to America . United States officials quickly point out that this is money due to America anyway . But he said discussions " on a higher level than in the past " might be useful . The President will probably discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano , the West German Foreign Minister , who is due in Washington next week . A big slice of Germany's " aid " is the early payment of a 210million debt to America . United States officials quickly point out that this is money due to America anyway . And they are unimpressed by the Germans' claim that they cannot pay more than 357million without upsetting their own economy . The Americans say Germany is having it too good and is not paying for the past or for the present . The Adenauer Government flatly rejected attempts by the Eisenhower Government to get them to pay a regular sum towards the cost of keeping American troops in Germany . These support costs are a big drain on America's dollar reserves . Dr. Adenauer's answer is the once-and-for-all cash offer of 357million . President Kennedy's rejection of it is a painful blow to the West German Government . It will now have to pay more - and increase taxation to do so - or run the obvious # risks in upsetting the new American administration . These support costs are a big drain on America's dollar reserves . Dr. Adenauer's answer is the once-and-for-all cash offer of 357million . President Kennedy's rejection of it is a painful blow to the West German Government . It will now have to pay more - and increase taxation to do so - or run the obvious risks in upsetting the new American administration . And , since this is election year in West Germany , Dr. Adenauer is in a tough spot . Joyce Egginton cables : President Kennedy at his Washington Press con- ference admitted he did not know whether America was lagging behind Russia in missile power . He said he was waiting for his senior military aides to come up with the answer on February 20 . And , since this is election year in West Germany , Dr. Adenauer is in a tough spot . Joyce Egginton cables : President Kennedy at his Washington Press conference admitted he did not know whether America was lagging behind Russia in missile power . He said he was waiting for his senior military aides to come up with the answer on February 20 . This surprising statement was a sharp about- face from his warnings during the Presidential election campaign . He claimed slackness in the Eisenhower Administration had caused America to lag behind Russia in nuclear development . President Kennedy did his best to avoid giving Pressmen a direct answer . George Brown CHILDREN TWO men who are poles apart in personality last night dominated Mr. Brown , passionate and warm-hearted , led Labour's attack on the higher health charges . Mr. Powell , white-faced and outwardly unemotional , replied with a statistical state- ment - and ended by inciting Labour M Ps to angry uproar . One dealt with the human issue behind the Health Service ; the other tried to show that the balance-sheet must always come first . Mr. Brown , passionate and warm-hearted , led Labour's attack on the higher health charges . Mr. Powell , white-faced and outwardly unemotional , replied with a statistical statement - and ended by inciting Labour M Ps to angry uproar . One dealt with the human issue behind the Health Service ; the other tried to show that the balance-sheet must always come first . The result of the vote was not in doubt . For the Tories were massed in answer to their whips to defeat a censure motion on the Government for " undermining the Health Service " and placing heavy burdens on those least able to bear them . Mr. Brown declared that the policy under censure was monstrous . It had offended many people far beyond the ranks of Labour supporters . The result of the vote was not in doubt . For the Tories were massed in answer to their whips to defeat a censure motion on the Government for " undermining the Health Service " and placing heavy burdens on those least able to bear them . Mr. Brown declared that the policy under censure was monstrous . It had offended many people far beyond the ranks of Labour supporters . The Press , many doctors and public were denouncing the proposals . He quoted from this letter which Mr. Gaitskell had received : " My background is a doctor of 68 , who has practised medicine for 43 years , chiefly as a panel doctor . " I am a lifelong Conservative . I am horrified and amazed by my party's proposal to prostitute the whole principle of the State service and to render that service a hardship to poor people . " After a lifetime of helping others and healing the sick , my considered opinion is that anybody supporting the increased charges is a wicked , old - . " Mr. Brown went on : " We are dealing with a noble edifice which needs an imaginative architect to improve it , but it has got a quantity surveyor . We have descended from the real problems to fiddling about with bills of cost . " After a lifetime of helping others and healing the sick , my considered opinion is that anybody supporting the increased charges is a wicked , old - . " Mr. Brown went on : " We are dealing with a noble edifice which needs an imaginative architect to improve it , but it has got a quantity surveyor . We have descended from the real problems to fiddling about with bills of cost . We believe that a comprehensive medical service , free to the patient at the point of need and with one standard for all sick people , is good and attainable . " We remain for it . But the Tories never were . " Interrupted by angry Tories , Mr. Brown retorted : " The jackals bay when there is nothing better they can do . " " We believe that a comprehensive medical service , free to the patient at the point of need and with one standard for all sick people , is good and attainable . " We remain for it . But the Tories never were . " Interrupted by angry Tories , Mr. Brown retorted : " The jackals bay when there is nothing better they can do . " He told them that their conception of social services was wholly different - fundamentally different from that of Labour . They would provide an ambulance service for the absolutely wretched - but it would not be too comfortable nor too easy to get . Answering jeers that it was Labour which first put a ceiling on health spending and started charges , Mr. Brown reminded the hostile Government benches that was done in 1950 because of the financial strain of the Korean war . He told them that their conception of social services was wholly different - fundamentally different from that of Labour . They would provide an ambulance service for the absolutely wretched - but it would not be too comfortable nor too easy to get . Answering jeers that it was Labour which first put a ceiling on health spending and started charges , Mr. Brown reminded the hostile Government benches that was done in 1950 because of the financial strain of the Korean war . In fact , the Tories made it worse now for the sick and needy than Labour had to make it in 1950 . And as a percentage of social service expenditure , health had fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent. Then Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to the unsmiling Mr. . He demanded that instead of taking it out of the patients Mr. Powell should take ruthless action against the drug making industry , whose profits had risen by up to 400 per cent. in the last eight years . In fact , the Tories made it worse now for the sick and needy than Labour had to make it in 1950 . And as a percentage of social service expenditure , health had fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent. Then Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to the unsmiling Mr. Powell . He demanded that instead of taking it out of the patients Mr. Powell should take ruthless action against the drug making industry , # whose profits had risen by up to 400 per " Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out of mothers , children and sick people than to take on this vast industry , " Mr. Brown commented icily . " Let us have a full inquiry into the cost of drugs and the pharmaceutical industry . " The health of children today owed much to the welfare food scheme . It was maintained during the war . Now in conditions of Tory affluence it seemed it could not be carried on . " Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out of mothers , children and sick people than to take on this vast industry , " Mr. Brown commented icily . " Let us have a full inquiry into the cost of drugs and the pharmaceutical industry . " The health of children today owed much to the welfare food scheme . It was maintained during the war . Now in conditions of Tory affluence it seemed it could not be carried on . When Mr. Brown sat down Labour M Ps cheered for a full minute - and even his bitterest opponents on defence joined in . Mr. Powell devoted half his speech to giving details of plans for improving the hospital service , on which indeed the Government is making progress . His basic defence of the Health Service cuts was that " even after the proposed changes the net cost of the service to the Exchequer will have increased over three years by 20 per cent. When Mr. Brown sat down Labour M Ps cheered for a full minute - and even his bitterest opponents on defence joined in . Mr. Powell devoted half his speech to giving details of plans for improving the hospital service , on which indeed the Government is making progress . His basic defence of the Health Service cuts was that " even after the proposed changes the net cost of the service to the Exchequer will have increased over three years by 20 per cent. " That cannot continue without either development being limited or an adjustment being made in financing . " The Government decided to adjust the financing - which Mr. Powell claimed was underpinning - not undermining - the service . Answering the attack on " economic charges " for welfare foods , Mr. Powell said that all these foods would still be free in families receiving regular National Assistance grants . " That cannot continue without either development being limited or an adjustment being made in financing . " The Government decided to adjust the financing - which Mr. Powell claimed was underpinning - not undermining - the service . Answering the attack on " economic charges " for welfare foods , Mr. Powell said that all these foods would still be free in families receiving regular National Assistance grants . " That cannot continue without either development being limited or an adjustment being made in financing . " The Government decided to adjust the financing - which Mr. Powell claimed was underpinning - not undermining - the service . Answering the attack on " economic charges " for welfare , Mr. Powell said that all these foods would still be free in families receiving regular National Assistance grants . MR. Macmillan has picked a strong " brains trust " team to negotiate terms for joining the Common Market . And he has abandoned plans to visit President de Gaulle this month to smooth the way . General de Gaulle's official welcome last week to Britain's moves towards the Six was taken as a friendly gesture in Whitehall , but no more than that . So the idea of personal mission by the Prime Minister to Paris was dropped Instead Mr. Macmillan will rely on a hand-picked team under the leadership of Sir Pierson Dixon , Britain's Ambassador to France , to back Mr. Edward Heath , Lord Privy Seal , who is charged with the conduct of negotiations with the Six . At the same time the Prime Minister has offered Commonwealth Governments every facility possible to safeguard their interests Seven Commonwealth countries have told Mr. Sandys , Commonwealth Relations Secretary , that they wish to be kept in touch in London . Three of them - Canada , Australia , New Zealand - will have strong delegations at an opening meeting in London on Monday . Once the Common Market's Council of Ministers draws up the procedure for negotiations in a fortnight's time , these Commonwealth countries can arrange for observers to advise the British negotiating team . The team is composed of experienced negotiators in several fields . Sir Pier- son Dixon has a wide reputation as a skilful backstage negotiator since his days as Britain's chief UN dele- gate . Second in command is Mr. Eric Roll , 53-year-old Deputy Secre- tary at the Ministry of Agriculture , Food , and Fisheries . The Foreign Office is represented by Sir Roderick Barclay Other leading members are : Sir Henry Lintott from the Commonwealth Relations Office , Sir William Corell-Barnes ( Colonial Office ) , Mr. G. R. Bell ( Treasury ) , and Mr. G. H. Andrew ( Board of Trade ) . They will accompany Mr. Heath next month when he goes to Brussels , headquarters of the Common Market Commission , or wherever the Six decide negotiations should be held . Some of the problems were reviewed yesterday at a meeting in Paris between M. Couve de Murville , French Foreign Minister , and Mr. Heath . MR. Selwyn Lloyd - a man with troubles enough back home - seems fated to fly into trouble abroad . Last year it was the riots in Istanbul , which enlivened the NATO Council meeting . Now we have the strikes and demonstrations in Ghana coinciding with the meeting of the Com- monwealth Economic Consultative Council - the first to be held in Africa . Only a few hours af- ter Mr Lloyd and his 24-strong delegation landed at Accra this morning , hundreds of shop assistants demonstrated outside the British-owned Kingsway Stores , the largest in town . The stores had been hit by the same strike wave that has paralysed the port of Takoradi for the past week . Root of the discontent : The austerity Budget , including a compulsory savings scheme which the Ghana Government introduced in July . Ghana's strong man is not here to face the storm . President Nkrumah , having made his contribution to the neutrals' conference in Belgrade , has resumed his holiday on the Black Sea and no one here professes to know when he will return . But in his absence his chief lieutenants have not let him down . The strong arm of authority has been raised against the strikers and is now beginning to tell . Today's Ghanaian Times ( motto : " The welfare of the people is the supreme law " ) reports : " The Government has been urged to take immediate ac- tion to deal ruthlessly with the strikers . " The urge came from a conference of activists of Nkrumah's Convention Party " after powerful addresses by Comrades Krobo Edusei , Tawia Adamafio , " and others . Strong deeds followed strong words . In Takoradi a " limited state of emergency " was declared , giving the Government adequate power to maintain all essential services and ensure food supplies . Thus it becomes an offence punishable with imprisonment for anyone who " publishes a report likely to cause alarm or prejudicial to public safety . " And up to ten years' imprisonment can be imposed on anyone convicted of sabotage . These stern measures had the desired effect today at Kumasi where the strikers gave in , but in Takoradi , the chief storm centre , they are still holding out despite the presence of 1,400 police and 16 armoured cars . And how did the Government react when the strikers demonstrated in Accra ? At 9.40 Mr. Edusei , Minister of Transport and pro- bably the toughest man in Mr. Nkrumah's team , drove up to the Kingsway Stores and faced the demonstrators , most of them shopgirls in overalls . " If you have not dispersed by ten o'clock , " he told them , ' the police will act . ' At five to ten a posse of police arrived and in less than two minutes the crowd had gone . If the threatened " counter-revolution " was not * to bring the President back from his travels it might have been thought that the muster from the 13 States of the Commonwealth was an occasion worthy of his presence . After all it was Mr. Nkrumah who suggested that this year the Economic Consultative Council should meet in Accra . * enough It has been left , however , to Mr. Goka , Ghana's Finance Minister , to do the honours as host , in which capacity he held a reception tonight in Accra's Ambassador Hotel . POLICE , on direct orders from the Cabinet , are openly intimidating members of Earl Russell's nuclear- disarming Committee of 100 , the Committee claimed yesterday . It said pressure was being put on members and associates all over the country . It alleged : Phones were being tapped and going out of action ; Police were visiting people " on no pretext whatsoever , except to pass the time of day " ; Supporters had been warned - one that his connection with the committee was going too far ; another that anti-apartheid agitation was all right , but support for the committee was not . A third man's house was watched for four days by plain-clothes men . Committee-member Mr. George Clark commented at a Press conference : " The most extraordinary things are happening . " Fifty committee members will appear at Bow-street today , including Lord Russell , Lady Russell , Lord Boyd-Orr , the Rev. Michael Scott , and Mr. Clark . They are required to show why they should not be bound over for disturbing the peace and for inciting a breach of the peace . The summonses say they are " likely to persevere in such unlawful conduct . " Lord Russell , 89 , was putting his affairs in order , and packing a case , at his Chelsea home yesterday . His secretary , American-born Mr. Ralph Schoenman , said : " He is not going to agree to be bound over . That will probably mean jail and , though frail , he is very fit and will take the rigours of prison in his stride . He hopes to be allowed to do some writing . " Back at the Press conference , Mr. Clark said two committee members tried a " plant " call on suspect phone . They discussed a sit-down at Watford at 5.30 p.m. - none was planned but police turned up . Sir Roy Welensky said today that he no longer accepted the good faith of Mr. Kenneth Kaunda . Sir Roy , Federal Rhodesian Prime Minister , said that Mr. Kaunda's United National Independence Party was a monster as vicious as the Zambia National Congress , which was led by Mr. Kaunda until he was outlawed in 1959 . The record of lawlessness among UNIP supporters went back a long way , Sir Roy told the Federal Parliament in Salisbury . He cited cases in which hundreds of UNIP supporters had been arrested or convicted since last year on charges of creating disturbances . During the first three weeks of the present trouble 287 incidents had been reported in Northern Rhodesia . More than 500 people - 167 of them members of the UNIP - were convicted last month in the Northern Province alone . " Against this background must be taken Mr. Kaunda's repeated statements that all he is doing is in the name of non-violence , " said Sir Roy . " I am now compelled to say that I don't accept his good faith . " He said Mr. Kaunda must know that his statements had stimulated violence , but he had done nothing to stop it . " It is true he made a point of again being absent from Northern Rhodesia when his followers have indulged in such violence . " But Sir Roy pointed out that a few months ago Mr. Kaunda said that if UNIP did not get its way what would happen would make the Mau Mau in Kenya " seem like a child's picnic . " JOHN DICKIE writes : Mr. Macmillan gave top priority to the clash over Northern Rhodesia on his return from Scotland yesterday . He summoned Mr. Iain Macleod , Colonial Secretary , and Mr. Duncan Sandys , Commonwealth Relations Secretary for an hour's talks at Admiralty House . A statement is expected today to hold the door open for modifications to the new Constitution provided law and order is maintained in Northern Rhodesia . Its terms have set the Prime Minister an exacting problem . Mr. Sandys has warned of the risk of a strong reaction from Sir Roy Welensky to any suggestion that there may be fresh concessions to the African nationalists . Mr. Macleod has ample evidence from talks with Sir John Moffat , Northern Rhodesian Liberal leader , and Mr. Kaunda , that the bulk of moderates and Africans will reject the Constitution unless it is modified . A ROYAL welcome for the Kabaka of Buganda ( King Freddie ) from Princess Elizabeth Bagaya of Toro , kneeling at the foot of his airliner's steps at London Airport yesterday . Forty other Africans greeted him , kneeling with heads bowed . The princess , aged 24 , is now studying history at Cambri- dge , where she is a friend of Prince William of Gloucester . King Freddie and three other hereditary rulers of native kingdoms in Uganda arrived for talks with Colonial Secretary Mr. Iain Macleod , before the Uganda Constitutional conference opens next Monday . The question : Their status in an independent Uganda . The thorniest problem for next week's conference is to settle the relationships between them and the rest of the country . A Government report has recognised their rights and recommended a form of federal association , but the four kings are not Instead , the kings will remain in London and wait to hear the conference's proposals . Then their views will be transmitted back . MR. BUTLER , the Home Secretary , has decided to meet head-on the biggest challenge to Government authority yet presented by the " Ban-the-Bomb " demonstrators . Police leave has been cancelled and secret plans prepared to deal with the mass sit-down rally planned for Sunday in Parliament-square by the Committee of 100 , the anti-nuclear arms group . It was Mr. Butler who authorised action which ended yesterday in 32 members of the Committee of 100 being imprisoned for inciting a breach of the peace . The committee's president 89-year-old Earl Russell and his 61-year-old wife were each jailed for a week . Playwrights Arnold Wesker ( The Kitchen ) and Robert Bolt ( The Flowering Cherry ) were jailed for a month . The possibility that the Government might invoke the Public Order Act , 1936 , and declare the whole rally illegal - whether the demonstrators sit down or not - was being discussed in Whitehall last night . It was last used a year ago , to deal with the St. Pancras rent riots . Today Mr. Butler will have talks with Police Commissioner Sir Joseph Simpson to draw up final plans for the " Battle of Parliament Square . " Measures agreed so far include : 1 . A mass call-out of police , special constables and reserves , with 750 policemen posted from outlying districts to stations in the area - West End Central , Bow-street , and Cannon-row . Today , for example , the Foreign Minister of Indo- nesia arrived in Belgrade as the guest of the Yugoslav Foreign Minister . In fact such Yugoslav activity has been # particularly intensified in the past year or so and though so far , apart from joint action in the United Nations , these exchanges have not been seen on any wider basis , President Tito is known for some time to have favoured a conference of neutralist leaders . The wish was particularly apparent in comments on the occasion of the conference in Casablanca and , in particular , in Yugoslav approval of the idea of an inter-African consultative assembly which would coordinate activity on the political and economic sphere ; and it is not difficult to see that President Tito would like some such idea extended also to the whole uncommitted world But he now feels , in view of a changed international situation and especially in view of fresh problems facing the new and independent countries of Africa , that the time is ripe to have more frequent consultations between the uncommitted countries and even to work out common stands on various problems facing those nations . Two subjects , the Congo and Algeria , are the main topics of the talks in Belgrade - and on both the two leaders have identical ideas . Two emissaries from the Laotian Government of Prince Boun Oum have arrived in Phnom Penh , Cambodia , to invite Prince Souvanna Phouma , the former Prime Min- ister , to return to Laos . No details of their mission have been disclosed , but it was reported earlier in Laos that Prince Boun Oum was considering asking Prince Souvanna Phouma to join his Government . Prince Souvanna Phouma has not yet replied to the mission , but recent statements made by him in Phnom Penh indicate that he still regards himself as the only legal Prime Minister of Laos . His policy of strict neutrality from 1951 to 1958 kept the kingdom in peace , though at the cost of virtual partition of the country into the pro-communist north and the pro-western centre and south . Prince Souvanna's former Minister of Information , Mr. Quinim Pholsena , who claims to be his representative in Laos , yesterday addressed all officers of the pro-communist forces occupying the province of Xieng Khouang and emphasized that Prince Souphannouvong , leader of the pro-communist Neo Lao Haksat Party , also to the officers in the same terms . This emphasis on the legality of the former Government suggests that all is not well with the political and military leadership of the pro-communists . Most of the province of Xieng Khouang and the tactically useful Plain of Jars , however , appear still to be firmly in their hands . The Government has claimed the recapture of Vang Vieng , the pro- communists' former base 60 miles north of Vientiane , but this claim A correspondent who travelled yesterday to within a few miles of Vang Vieng was told by officers that this village was still held by the pro-communists . With the Prime Minister sunning himself in Jamaica and # his Cabinet out in the grass roots making 160 speeches in 80 constituencies in 10 days , the Liberal Party are holding a national conference here with some 2,000 delegates , the biggest gathering since 1958 when Mr. Lester Pearson was chosen as party leader . In some ways it will be a testing occasion for him , although some think his position unassailable simply because there is no one else in sight to supplant him . So the con- ference will concentrate on laying the foundations on which to win the next election . The rally comes at a time when in spite of carefully worded state- ments by the Prime Minister there is an air of electoral expectancy . Members of the Cabinet are basing their speeches on a new Conservative booklet called The Record Speaks which outlines in some detail the accomplishments of the party since it came to office three and a half years ago . Nevertheless there is little illusion in the Conservative Party that their stock at home has fallen in the face of heavy unemployment and an uncertain economy . Last year saw the defeat of two Conservative provincial governments , Quebec and New Brunswick , and in the four federal by-elections last October the party fared badly . They are now faced with four other by- elections , one at Esquimalt Saanich , British Columbia , one in Leeds , Ontario , and the other two in the Maritimes - Restigouche Madawaska , New Brunswick , and Kings , Prince Edward Island . All four were Conservative strongholds . Last September a public poll showed that for the first time since the Administration came to power in 1957 the Liberals were ahead ( 43 per cent were in favour of " The Grits " if a federal election had been held last autumn , 38 per cent for the Conservatives and 12 per cent for the C.C.F. ) . However , a separate poll revealed that Mr. Diefenbaker was still ahead in terms of popularity as an individual leader ( for Mr. Diefenbaker 36 per cent , for Mr. Pearson 34 per cent ) . How far is Mr. Lester Pearson acceptable to the people of Canada as a Prime Minister ? Many observers at the national rally will be seeking an answer . It is difficult for many to see Mr. Pearson in the role of a popular orator at the hustings , the spellbinder that Mr. Diefen- baker was in the last two campaigns . The impression remains that the Liberal leader is still the diplomatist , more at home in the chancery , or the corridors of the United Nations , not the father figure , so necessary in Canadian leadership , or the practical politician , able to talk about sewage problems in Algoma East . On the other hand , Mr. Pearson excels in meeting people informally , but many still regard him " as some sort of cross between an egghead and a missionary " . His party advisers are now trying to correct that image . The bow tie has gone ; he is having lessons on television techniques and is being coached by speech experts . Everything is being done to promote a new image . Certainly , he is now a much lessly trounced by Mr. Diefen- baker in the House in those early days . It has been a hard road back but now , with plenty of political ammunition given him by the Gov- ernment in recent sessions , he is leading the Opposition with skill and assurance and is a match for the Prime Minister across the floor . Sentence Database Mr. Pearson is now talking about " his new and dynamic liberalism " and this week will # show perhaps how far " Mike will go . The main topic under review is unemployment , but there will be 21 committees examining subjects ranging from foreign investment in Canada to the problems of the Atlantic provinces . However , be this election year or not , Mr. Pearson , with his party increasingly confident of return to power , Sentence Database Mr. Thorneycroft , the Minister of Aviation , who arrives in Bonn tomorrow for talks with the Federal Government on a European space satellite project , will find the Germans interested in the principle of space research , but rather sceptical about British plans for organizing it . Stated more bluntly , they are still unconvinced that this is not primarily an effort on Britain's part to salve Blue Streak , which was abandoned last summer as a military project ; or that the European space satellite is indeed to be purely scientific in character . Mr. Thorneycroft's main purpose will be to remove these doubts , and to persuade the Federal Government that the financial burden involved is really worth while , at a time when any increase in budgetary commitments would almost certainly involve a corresponding rise in taxation - something no one is prepared to contemplate in an election year . But , at the same time , there is reason to believe that the Federal Government is not convinced , on the basis of the information it has so far , that such a project would be justified from a scientific point of view ; and not merely constitute a " prestige " satellite , duplicating to some extent American efforts , as Die Welt suggests today in a highly critical editorial article . On the specific question of the use of Blue Streak , Mr. Thorneycroft's task will be easier . He can point out that this is the only rocket and launcher in Europe to have reached a sufficient stage of development for adaptation as the first stage in putting a heavy satellite into outer space . There has also been some talk of adopting another British rocket , Black Knight , for the second stage , but the French have one of their own called Veronique which they would like to see used . The Foreign Ministry spokesman added today , however , that the Brussels Treaty was irrelevant , because research on the various rocket stages had already been concluded , and only cooperation on the type of capsule was involved . A lesser obstacle to German participation is the absence of any Ministry or Minister directly responsible for it - and therefore of any budget under which funds could be appropriated . This is expected eventually to replace the Fiat G-91 , and the F 104 Starfighter , the backbone of the German Air Force . PRESIDENT KENNEDY renewed his pressure on Mr. Harold Macmillan to join the Common Market during their talks at Admiralty House , Whitehall , yesterday . Much of their three hours , 20 minutes of discussion is believed to have been devoted to this main point of American policy . It arose during talks following President Kennedy's report to the British Prime Minister of the outcome of his recent visit to Paris . There General de Gaulle had made clear that he would accept Britain into the Common Market only if there were no conditions laid down to meet the Commonwealth and other reservations . Mr. Kennedy told Mr. Macmillan that he still wanted him to apply for membership of the Common Market , even if it meant an unconditional surrender . There were also brief discussions on Laos , Berlin and other foreign questions , after Mr. Kennedy had informed Mr. Macmillan of his discussions with Mr. Krushchov . With the exception of 40 minutes when Lord Home , Foreign Secretary , and Mr. McGeorge Bundy , the President's special assistant for security affairs , were brought in , the two men talked alone . An attempt to get more information about the Admiralty House meeting will be made in the House of Commons this afternoon . Labour M.P.s already have many questions to the Prime Minister asking for a statement . President Kennedy flew from London Airport last night to arrive in Washington this morning . He is to make a 30-minute nation-wide broadcast and television report on his talks with Mr. Krushchov this evening . The joint communique on Mr. Kennedy's and Mr. Macmillan's third talks - the first were at Key West , Florida , the second in Washington - said : " Their discussions covered the major problems , both economic and political , and revealed once again the close agreement of the two Governments in pursuing their common purposes . " Occasion was given to review the need for economic co-operation and expansion in the general interests of developed and underdeveloped countries alike . " It said that the President and Premier noted " with satisfaction " the agreement in Vienna on the need for an effective Laos ceasefire , which should lead to progress toward a Laos agreement at the Geneva conference . " Particular attention was also given to the nuclear tests conference and to the question of disarmament . " The situation in regard to Germany was reviewed , and there was full agreement on the necessity of maintaining the rights and obligations of the allied Governments in Berlin . " Apart from their formal Admiralty House talks , followed by lunch given by Lady Dorothy Macmillan with Mrs. Kennedy and other guests present , Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Macmillan met three more times yesterday . In PARIS , Mr. Dean Rusk , U.S. Secretary of State , gave a 90-minute briefing on the Vienna talks to the 15-nation Nato council . Some of his listeners said he was " rather pessimistic " and talked of a Berlin crisis later this year . From Nato headquarters Mr. Rusk went to see President de Gaulle and informed him of the Vienna outcome . Last night Mr. Rusk arrived in London in time to join the Buckingham Palace dinner and to fly home with the President . In DUESSELDORF , Chancellor Adenauer said the Vienna talks " might be the beginning of a slight improvement , " but no big changes should be expected in the political situation . RELAXED , smiling and clearly in the best of spirits , Mr. Krushchov yesterday returned to Moscow after his two days of talks with President Kennedy , writes Dennis Ogden from Moscow . The good beginning made at Vienna must be followed up by new efforts for peace , the Soviet Communist Party newspaper Pravda declared yesterday . Events in Vienna " gave hope to people of goodwill who hate the cold war , and to all who are striving for a stable peace , " " Thinking over the results of the Vienna meeting , peace-loving people will say ' a good beginning . ' " Mr. Krushchov remained at the airport to join President Brezhnev in welcoming Dr. Sukarno , President and Prime Minister of Indonesia , who arrived by Boeing 707 jet on a state visit 40 minutes after Mr. Khrushchov had arrived from Vienna . A cheering , delighted crowd of Indonesian students broke through crash barriers to surround their President on the tarmac for In VIENNA , before flying off to Moscow , Mr. Khrushchov said he hoped his weekend talks with President Kennedy would # help " to establish an enduring peace between nations . " Replying to a farewell speech from Austrian President Schaerf , the Soviet Premier thanked Austria for the hospitality and welcome he had received . " The Soviet Union has always striven and is striving to safeguard an enduring peace for the peoples , to secure an early solution of the MR. GAITSKELL today delivered a full-blooded defence of the Polaris missile base . And by implication he supported the establishment of sites in Britain for the training of German troops . His main theme was that nuclear weapons were necessary to defend Britain , that Britain must depend on Nato and " the West " must have nuclear weapons so long as the Soviet Union has them . Addressing the annual congress of the National Union of General and Municipal Workers , he said he felt sure the Labour movement was coming round in support of his views . Obviously conscious of the fierce and widespread resentment over the U.S. Polaris base in Britain , Mr. Gaitskell said that he even noticed that supporters of unilateral nuclear disarmament were changing their tactics by switching most of their emphasis on to the missile . Mr Gaitskell said that a member of an alliance could not deny facilities to nations to which it was allied . But governments should be free to negotiate and refuse proposals with which they did not agree . The Labour Party opposed Thor missiles , because , he said , they were out of date and vulnerable and would attract enemy action . That argument did not apply to the Polaris submarine . So long as the Soviet Union had nuclear weapons , the West , somewhere , must have them too . It was far better for a weapon used for retaliatory purposes to be under the sea rather than on land . This was why the Labour Party did not think it right to oppose the Polaris depot ship . The party agreed that it was unwise to locate the base in the Holy Loch , only 30 miles from Glasgow , a city with two million people . It should be sited in a more remote area . Mr. Gaitskell added that the Scarborough conference decisions did not , in his view , truly reflect the opinions of the majority of party members and still less the party's supporters in the country . Mr Gaitskell added that agreement with the unilateralists was not possible , though he respected their views . He saw by reports that " those who organise these things " were recommending the supporters of unilateral nuclear disarmament to shift the emphasis of their intervention away from straight opposition to the official document on to opposition to the Polaris base . To Mr. Macmillan , Mr Gaitskell said the Prime Minister should begin to take seriously the danger of the spread of nuclear weapons within the Nato alliance . " Let us say to Macmillan that he should press , I hope with the agreement of Kennedy , in talks with the Soviet Union , for the establishment in central Europe of a zone of controlled disarmament . " He thought , he said , that the Soviet Union would be prepared to reach an agreement on a zone of controlled disarmament in Europe . Mr Gaitskell concluded , declaring that the present was the beginning of a great period of opportunity for the party . It was a great chance that should be grasped . Inter-union jealousies prevent the fulfilment of a common policy for wages and other major questions , Mr. Jack Cooper The General Council of the Trades Union Congress should therefore consider the matter . Consideration should also be given to the regrouping of unions and the modification of their structures to meet the growing concentration of capital . Mr. Cooper argued that a common industrial contribution was urgent - particularly in unions serving workers in the same industry - along Suggesting that a total T.U.C. membership of eight million was a " poor show " compared with some countries , he argued that the position needed examination . BEFORE President Kennedy met Mr. Macmillan yesterday morning he was given the views of a wide section of the British people about Polaris submarine bases in this country . An open letter written by Earl Russell hoping that the Earl Russell , President of the Committee of 100 , told Kennedy that he should take notice of " that very large and growing section which is opposed to the establishment of a Polaris base , whether at Holy Loch or elsewhere on British territory . " He pointed out that already there have been protests but that " very much larger protests are to be expected and are being planned . " There are three kinds of reasons that justify the protests and these should carry weight with the U.S. Government , Earl Russell suggested . " The first of these reasons is the importance of pre- serving the hitherto cordial relations between the U.S. and Great Britain , not only in Government circles , but in public opinion . " Earl Russell says it is inevitable , though profoundly regrettable , that the agitation against the Polaris base has generated some antagonism to the policy of the United States . The second reason is concerned with doubts as to the safety of the people of Great Britain ; " in the time of crisis it would probably be impossible for the British authorities to exercise any degree of control over the action of Polaris submarines . " He argues that there is a distinct possibility that so long as there is a Polaris base in Britain the Soviet Union might retaliate against Britain alone . " Such retaliation might , and probably would , destroy the whole population of Britain in the course of , at the most , an hour " without provoking American retaliation . Earl Russell believes : " It is very questionable whether British membership of Nato and British permission of American bases on our territory add anything to the strength of America , while , on the contrary , they impose upon America an onerous obligation which it may prove impossible to fulfil . " The third reason is that the supreme interest for the whole world - East and West and uncommitted nations - is the prevention of nuclear war . " A rapidly growing body of opinion in this country believes that Britain could be more effective in preventing a nuclear war as a neutral by helping to suggest agreements which could be accepted by both East and West . " THE next White Paper on defence , to be published in March , is likely to contain a five-year plan for the three Services . Its aim will be to produce superbly equipped , all-Regular forces of about 400,000 men . The three Services would be " integrated " to a greater extent than ever before . Short of wearing the same uniform , which is not contemplated , the Navy , Army and Royal Air Force would become , for practical purposes , a single defence force . There would be complete co-operation at all levels in training and operations . This would apply also in the command structure and central administrative organisation . Mr. Watkinson , Minister of Defence , has been working on the plan for some months , with the Prime Minister's approval . He has had numerous meetings with the Service Ministers . He has also had talks with the Earl of Home , Foreign Secretary , and with other Ministers concerned with overseas aspects of defence policy . Details of the scheme are now being worked out by the Chiefs of Staff , a process that may take four or five months . The scheme will be subject to Cabinet approval . Mr. Watkinson remains con- vinced that the policy initiated in 1957 , in Mr. Sandys's time as Minister of Defence , is still correct . This was to return to the tradition of all-Regular voluntary forces , with the last National Serviceman out of uniform by the end of 1962 . The Minister regards the recent trend of recruiting figures as encouraging . He is confident the aim can be achieved . While the possibility of an eventual return to National Service in some form cannot be entirely discounted , he does not agree that the point has been reached where this need even be considered . If National Service is ever resorted to , engagement would probably have to be for three years . It is thought this would be the minimum necessary for the extended training modern arms require and to enable each man to serve at least a year overseas . There is no truth in suggestions that Mr. Watkinson is at odds with the Service chiefs over the decision to dispense with National Service , or over any other aspect of defence policy . Criticisms about Army manpower appear to have come mainly from retired officers who have held high positions but are out of touch with the existing situation . Mr. Watkinson has had the utmost support from the C.I.G.S. , Field-Marshal Sir Francis Festing , who believes completely in the principle of an all-Regular army . Gen. Sir Richard Hull , who is to succeed Sir Francis , is equally convinced Mr. Watkinson is right . Sir Francis is to hand over to Sir Richard as from Nov. 1 . The hand-over , due in September , was delayed because of the Berlin crisis . Mr. Watkinson and his advisers felt the change would be unwise at a moment # when attention had to be concentrated on possible need for important military operations . For this reason Sir Francis stayed on , and # sacrificed his leave . There was a computed 8.4 per cent. swing towards the Nationalist party of Dr. Verwoerd , the Prime Minister . This implies the dis- appearance of the Progressive party from the House . Early results in yesterday's general election showed Nationalists being returned in their strongholds , like Bloem- fontein and the Transvaal , with slightly increased majorities . In the Cape , the veteran United Party politician , Mr. Harry Lawrence , standing as a Progressive , was The defeat of the leader of the Progressive party , Dr. Steytler , in Port Elizabeth South , announced immediately afterwards by the United party candidate , Mr. Plewman , left the Progressives deprived of both their chief figures . Dr. Verwoerd and the Leader of the Opposition , Sir de Villiers Graaff , have been returned unopposed . The contests were for 86 seats as 70 Nationalists and 20 United party candi- dates are unopposed . Long before polling closed at 8 p.m. it was evident that voters were bored by the Government's frequent appeals to the electorate . The election was the fourth in four years . In most constituencies it may go down as the most apathetic in the country's history . THE Prime Minister disclosed in the Commons last night that he had considered early in the Parliamentary recess whether to mobilise reserves necessary to bring the British Army of the Rhine on to a war footing . He decided that it would be a great error to do so and to recall Parliament . But there would be no hesitation in mobilising if a further deterioration in the situation warranted such a step . It would have to be accompanied by other measures of a military , economic and political kind . Mr. Macmillan , who was winding up the foreign affairs debate , said the Government could not be party to accepting as a matter of principle the imposed division of Germany . " We must not be rattled into surrender , but we must not - and I am not - be afraid of negotiation . " Mr. Godber , Minister of State , Foreign Office , said earlier that the Government had asked the Medical Research Council to reassess the fall-out position in view of the Russian tests . The Council's findings would be made public . With a vigour and authority which delighted old Parliamentary friends and foes alike , the Earl of Avon , the former Sir Anthony Eden , in his maiden speech in the House of Lords last night , gave a warning that # appeasement over Berlin could only lead to war . To stand firm , he declared , was not to invite war , but the surest way to avert it . It was the end of a rather curious speech in which Mr. Macmillan wound up the two-day debate on foreign affairs . He began in a low , almost chatty mono- tone , and his voice never rose to any accent of urgency . He passed in rapid review the United Nations Secretariat ; nuclear tests ; the canard about British interference with the United Nations in the Congo ; Kuwait ; and South-East Asia . He spent most of his short half-hour on Berlin . He deplored the possibility of some " new myth " about betrayal of Germany by the Allies . " We do not , " he said , " really know what the Russians want . " But he was certain that they wanted to establish a final and irrevocable division of Germany . Britain could not be a party to an imposed division . But negotiation , as the debate had shown , could be undertaken on a variety of bases . Mr. Macmillan explained that he had deliber- ately refrained during the summer from recalling Parliament or ordering mobilisation by proclamation , such as would be necessary to bring the British Army of the Rhine on to a fully active footing . That would have created a thoroughly unde- sirable atmosphere of panic . He thought that the situation was rather more hopeful . The Russians now realised its seriousness . The French doubts were more about procedure than about substance . The Prime Minister's attitude of studied calm brought down the temperature of the debate , which never at any time rose to fever pitch , to a remarkable degree of sub-normality . Throughout Mr. Macmillan's speech the Earl of Home , Foreign Secretary , was listening in the Peers' Gallery . The early speakers in the debate each severely rated the speech of his predecessor . These strictures were all too well justified . We started with the plaintive wailings of Mr. Healey , " Shadow " Foreign Secretary , described by Mr. Godber , Minister of State , Foreign Office , as " pedantic and obscure on Berlin , damaging and obscure on the Congo . " In turn , Mr. Godber was censured by Mr. Shinwell , former Labour Defence Minister , for having read the The trouble about such debates is that they range too widely . They remind one of the Rugby match in " Tom Brown's Schooldays , " in which all the boys were welcome to take part , and only those who " really meant business " removed their jackets . Not many metaphorical braces were visible in the early stages of to-night's debate . Mr. Healey had another tilt at the Prime Minister's golf-course Press conference , which he described as " a display of flabby and A reference to the reunification of Germany brought a bark of " Start another war ! " from Mr. Ellis Smith ( Lab. , Stoke on Trent S. ) . Then Mr. Healey launched out on his pet theme of limitation of armaments in Europe . This could , he suggested , be linked with prohibition of the production of atomic weapons in any part of Europe . Inspection and control would be much easier to establish in these territories . Mr. Healey denounced the Government for using double standards . Ministers had rebuked the unaligned nations for not condemning the new Russian tests , but they themselves had no condemnation for events in Angola or Algeria . It was not for the Government , said Mr. Healey , to take up moral attitudes , " especially when the temple of their religion is the bingo-parlour . " This puzzled such students of comparative religion as had failed to detect this cult . But Mr. Healey had a partial and limited success . He rallied behind him the Left-wing opinion so coolly snubbed last night by his leader , Mr. Gaitskell . Mr. Godber's performance merited all the mild scorn heaped on it by Mr. Shinwell . True , he did tell the House that the Government had asked the Medical Research Council to reassess the fall-out position in view of the Russian tests , and said that the council's findings would be published . He was not so happy in his defence of the Government's failure to condemn France for her nuclear tests in the Sahara on the grounds that they were only little ones . This was too reminiscent of the nursemaid and her illegitimate baby . For the most part , Mr. Godber muttered his way through a cliche-ridden Foreign Office brief . He resembles the elephant seal , an # otherwise endearing creature whose articulation is limited , we are told , to a series of heavy sighs . Sir Lynn Ungoed- Thomas , M.P. for Leicester N.E. , a former Labour Solicitor-General , and Mrs. Barbara It was signed by 60 Labour M.P.s , many of them Left-wing # sympathisers . It condemned " the pollution of the world's atmosphere as a crime against humanity . " A personal letter of protest against the tests from Canon Collins , chairman of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament , addressed to Mr. # Khruschev , was also taken to the Russian Embassy . A POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT writes : Ban-the- bomb demonstrators thronged the Central Lobby of the House of Commons last night and formed a queue stretching for more than 200 yards outside in Old Palace Yard . About 2,000 lobbied M.P.s and harangued them on disarmament . MR SELWYN LLOYD may speed up his plans to catch speculators in shares and property . The first hint of the Chancellor bowing to public opinion over his " July Budget " came dramatically in the Commons yesterday . Mr Lloyd said on # Tuesday that he proposed to deal in his next regular Budget with some profits which now escape tax . Sir Edward Boyle , Financial Secretary to the Treasury , said yesterday that the Government does not like retrospective legislation . He went on to describe the kind of people the Chancellor hopes to tax . These are people buying and selling shares within a short period , those " stagging " on a new issue and property dealers who form a chain of companies and put one property deal through each . Mr. Harold Wilson , Shadow Chancellor , jumped up to offer the Government an easy passage for such legislation . " Why don't you make proposals to legislate in the autumn ? " Mr. Wilson asked . " We wouldn't call it an Autumn Budget . You can call it a Taxation Management Bill , if you like . " While Mr. Wilson was speaking , the Prime Minister and Mr. Lloyd had a whispered conversation . They nodded at each other and Sir Edward rose to say that the Chancellor would bear Mr. Wilson's offer in mind . Guy Eden writes : Treasury experts are already working on the scheme . Profits of genuine investors in industry will not be affected , but only quick in-and-out speculator deals . FRANK FOULKES , Communist president of the ETU , refused yesterday to " commit suicide " at the TUC's invitation . He was announcing his executive's rejection of the ultimatum to the ETU. In reply to the call for his resignation he said : " Our rules say that if an official resigns he is not allowed to run again for three years . " I have only 2 1/2 years to go before I retire , so this is an invitation from my good friends of the TUC that I should commit hara-kiri . The other TUC demands : Five leading Communists must not hold office for five years ; Sub-committees set up to strip secretary John Byrne of his powers must disband in ten days . These the ETU executive rejected as " wholly unacceptable " and " unwarranted " interference . " But it agreed to postpone operation of the sub- committees . The small rocket craft , for destroying big ships , are controlled automatically , even to the preparations for launching their rockets . Applauding on the river banks at Leningrad were thousands now told that in 20 years they will have free food , housing , light , heat , transport and medical treatment - all for a working week of 34 to 36 hours . " The whole naval might of the Soviet Union can be seen here - a truly inspiring and proud sight , " said Moscow radio's commentator . The parade was reviewed by Marshal Andrei Grechko , commanding the forces of the Warsaw Pact countries - the Communist " Nato . " He said rocket- carrying atomic submarines now formed the basis of the Soviet Navy . MR. MACMILLAN'S announcement in the Commons of his momentous Mr. Anthony Fell ( Yarmouth ) called the decision " shocking " and added : " It is the most disastrous thing any Prime Minister has done for many , many generations . " He concluded : " The best service the Prime Minister can do would be to resign . " The outburst shocked MPs of all parties . Even close friends were signalling Mr. Fell to stop . There were loud cries of " shame " from all parts of the Conservative side . Mr. Fell appeared to be in tears as he sat down . A few minutes later , Mr. Fell got up and left the chamber . He returned five minutes later to stand just inside the doorway looking more composed . In the middle of the amazing scene , Mr. Macmillan waved his hand at Mr. Fell . This seemed to infuriate Mr. Fell even more . " I cannot be told to sit down by the Prime Minister . " Protests had been expected from Tory rebels . But Mr. Fell's attack was unprecedented . He accused the Prime Minister of " political double talk . " " It had the effect on one former supporter that he now thinks this Prime Minister is a national disaster , " he said . Most MPs agreed that Mr. Fell's attack had , if anything , rallied support to the Prime Minister . This apparently , was Mr. Macmillan's assessment . He confined his reply to the observation that Mr. Fell had probably " maximised his support . " There were no other attacks of such ferocity . But there was ample evidence of Conservative and Labour opposition , which will be aired in the debate tomorrow and on Thursday . As Mr. Macmillan made his announcement , the House was crowded . He said : " No # British Government could join the European Economic Community without prior negotiation with a view to meeting the needs of the Commonwealth countries , of our European Free Trade Association partners and of British agriculture . " Near the end of a long statement , Mr. Macmillan stated the Government's intention : " After long and earnest consideration , Her Majesty's Government have come to the conclusion that it would be right for Britain to make a formal application . . for negotiations with a view to joining the Community . " At this point , Mr. Paul Williams ( Cons. , Sunderland ) called out " Shame . " Mr. Williams is a close associate of Mr. Fell . He claimed that , unless we were in the Common Market , we should not be able to play any part in # determining its future . " We can lead better from within , " he said . Mr. Macmillan dealt with the main objection raised by Tory critics . Mr. Anthony Fell , who created a scene on this point on Monday , took up a position almost hidden behind the Serjeant at Arms' chair . Mr. Macmillan said we could be more help to the Commonwealth through the strength we would gain in the Common Market than by isolation . He paid tribute to the development of the Common Market . " The Community ( Common Market ) has imparted an impetus and an economic growth to The Six . Above all , it is an idea which has gripped men's minds , " he said . Referring to previous negotiations , Mr. Macmillan looked towards Mr. Reginald Maudling . " These were negotiations in which the President of the Board of Trade played a conspicuous part , " the Premier said . He dismissed the idea that Britain would be swamped by cheap labour . Our industry , he said , would probably gain . " Many people feel we have had , perhaps , too much shelter , " he went on . Conservatives protested when Mr. Gaitskell said he had been told this " by some # people of considerable authority , " he retorted . " I agree with the Prime Minister that I do not think we are necessarily bound for federalism in Europe , " he went on . If we joined the Common Market , our food subsidies would probably be replaced by a system of tariffs " That will mean a rise in the cost of living . " BUDGETTE or no Budgette YOU are spending more as the summer holiday season moves into top gear . On the eve of August Bank Holiday the spending spree is at a new all-time peak . Note circulation soared for the sixth successive week - this time by more than 15,000,000 # last week . And that brought the figure to a record 2,415,000,000 . This was 100,000,000 more than the corresponding week last year and 37,000,000 up on the 1960 record set last Christmas . Now look at the other side of all these coins . The big " squeeze " means that it is going to be more difficult to arrange a loan or overdraft . And banks will be stricter in recalling existing overdrafts . This is underlined in the Central Bank's weekly return ... ... which shows that more than 163,000,000 of the banks' money is now frozen in the form of special deposits with the Bank of England . Banks have paid in a first instalment of almost 8,000,000 in response to the Budgette appeal . About another 70,000,000 is due by September 20 . For nearly a year about 150,000,000 has been frozen . MR. KRUSCHEV raises the bogy of German militarism in his replies to the West on Berlin . And he repeats that the problem " must be solved this year . " The Notes to the Big Three and a memorandum to West Germany were published in Moscow yesterday . They tell : The U.S. - It is false to say the absence of a peace treaty with Germany causes no real danger . West Germany , with its militarists and revenge-seekers , is becoming a hotbed of war danger in Europe . Even now , aided by the U.S. , Britain and France , it has more than enough forces and arms to touch off a world war . BRITAIN - One cannot but wonder at British bases being put at the disposal of those very militarists who razed Coventry and barbarously bombed London and other British cities . FRANCE - One can hardly conceive the French are not alarmed ... . Next door , in West Germany , before everyone's eyes there has sprung up a regular army led by former Nazi generals and officers . With fire and sword France denies Algeria the right to self- determination and tramples on Tunisians' right to independence . WEST GERMANY - Russia would like to see a clear # realization that West Germany would not survive even a few hours of a third world war . The best way to rule out such a tragic contingency would be to sign a peace treaty to remove the cancerous growth of West Berlin's occupation status . Behind Bonn's slogan of German self- determination is the intention to impose on East Germany the regime existing in West Germany . REFUGEES are pouring out # of East Germany into West Berlin faster than ever . Mr. K's latest speech scared 1,157 East Germans to cross into West Berlin's reception centre DURING MONDAY NIGHT . And officials expect the total to leap to 3,000 a day . This figure has been surpassed only on the eve of the East German disturbances on July 17 , 1953 . And officials fear it may be too much for the city's refugee camps . They will overflow and private houses will have to be used . Prime Minister after Prime Minister speaks out in revulsion against the South African Government's policy of apartheid as we wait for the curtain to rise on the Commonwealth Conference in London . Will it end with South Africa's exclusion from the Commonwealth ? The issue is touch and go . There is a possibility that it will not be settled at this conference . It may be agreed to wait until South Africa actually becomes a Republic later in the year . But if a final decision is to be faced now , on which side do the strongest arguments lie ? THE Archbishop of Capetown has shown that the matter is not clear-cut . The Archbishop has long been a courageous fighter against apartheid . He must be heard with attention . On purely practical grounds he holds that it would be a mistake to expel South Africa , weakening the whites who are working for a change of policy . In his view it would also be against the interests of the Africans . He holds that more pressure can be put on South Africa while she remains in the Commonwealth than could be exercised were she cut off from it . On the other hand , those who favour expulsion , inclu- ding African leaders , feel that nothing less than the shock of expulsion will weaken the grip of Dr. Verwoerd and the Nationalists . They point out that Dr. Verwoerd refuses to consider abandoning the apartheid policy . THE Commonwealth is a multi-racial society . A policy of racial discrimination in any of its countries is surely the one thing that it could not survive . Whatever statesmen say at the conference table in London , millions at home would regard as fraudulent a Commonwealth which had room for a racist South Africa . And this is a Commonwealth in which five citizens are coloured for every one who is white . Seen in this wider picture , a South Africa that clings to apartheid is a menace to the Commonwealth and a liability to the whole Western world . A practical solution would be for the Commonwealth to draft a set of principles excluding race discrimination . And so leave South Africa to make the grade , or go out . THE Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh come home tonight from their tour in the East . The duke's trigger-finger and the ritual slaughter of beasts have taken the headlines in this country . Nevertheless , the tour has been an immense success . The Queen has won a triumph . It would be pleasanter if such cruel and feudal performances as tiger and rhino hunts were dropped from future Royal programmes . But the Queen and the Duke have pleased millions by their visit . The warmth of their welcome in India and Pakistan are happy memories . WEST GERMANY - followed yesterday by the Dutch - has made the gesture of a good neighbour . She has put up the value of her money . Certainly , the rise is very small . But it is a step in the direction of live-and-let-live . Hopes will now grow brighter of further international co-operation , which is the only way to solve the payments difficulties that upset the Western world . Britain and the U.S. , which have problems with their balances , will gain some immediate help . What it means in practical terms is that our exports to Germany will now be a little cheaper for Germans to buy , while the goods which Germany exports will be made a little dearer . Booming Germany is deliberately encouraging more imports as a means to curb rising prices at home . She is also aware how # unpopular she has been growing by failing until now to co-operate as a creditor nation should . Germany exports much more than she imports . For upwards of five years the world's reserves of dollars have been drained into Germany . There they have stayed uselessly locked up because Germany has no tradition of trading abroad . In addition the strength of Germany's trading position has attracted speculators to hold marks rather than pounds or dollars , hoping for the mark to rise , as has now happened . WILL the new valuation be enough to correct Germany's massive trading surplus and choke off speculation against dollar and pound ? That is doubtful . If however , in addition to her new good-neighbour gesture , Germany takes a really big share in giving aid to underdeveloped nations , the world outlook will be brighter . What gives rise to optimism is the sign that Germany and the other leading Western nations are at long last moving towards a solution of currency problems by co-operation . A CURIOUS advertisement on page nine , paid for by that curious body Moral Re-Armament . Those who lend their names to this kind of advertisement are worthy people , a little innocent of politics , perhaps , or carried away by the idea that moral regeneration would solve all our problems . So it would . While we are waiting for the millenium , however , most of us would prefer to put our hopes for earthly justice in instruments of democracy , such as trade unions and our local and national Parliaments . Should the Herald publish such advertisements ? This is a difficult question . It would obviously be wrong to refuse all political advertisements with which we disagree . When an advertisement contains statements whose factual truth is doubtful , or where the total content would be deeply repugnant to our readers , it is right to exercise editorial discretion . The MRA advertisement falls into neither category , though many readers will dislike it . The first reaction of the Sudanese Government was to denounce the United Nations for " negligence and impotence , " and to say that its 400 troops in the Congo would be taken home . The reaction can be understood . The Sudan's concern for its men is natural . But this could hardly be a # dignified exit . IF the UN is blamed for being weak , it would be more logical to send in more men , not weaken it further by desertion . It is unjust to pass the buck to Mr. Hammarskjold and the UN's servants . The responsibility rightly belongs to the nations which have undertaken the task of pre- serving peace in the Congo . That is not a ceremonial duty , and the soldiers have every right to blame the politicians unless they see it through . When the United Nations instructed Mr. Hammarskjold to use force if necessary to prevent civil war , it was clear that new dangers would arise unless it gave him the political ... That was the first point that Mr. Hammarskjold made . India has responded handsomely by providing 3,000 men , who must take about a fortnight to arrive . If the UN forces were thick enough on the ground , such incidents as that at Matadi would not happen . THE UN's ability to keep peace depends simply on adequate support by the nations which have set their hands to this plough . The big Powers involved in the Cold War must of course keep out . The Americans were justified in diverting naval ships in case non-combatant help was wanted ; but they stressed that there was no intention to intervene in fighting . Yesterday the ships turned away again , satisfied that they were not required . It is to be hoped that the UN will be re-established in their port by negotiation and that there will be no more outrages . But back , Mr. Hammarskjold is determined , they must go . The best news for the Congo would be agreement between its rival political leaders . Through the patient efforts of UN conciliators they are meeting for the first time , in Malagasy ( formerly Madagascar ) . THE world will sigh with relief when this strife-torn land gets itself a government which all outsiders can recognise . ONLY a man wrapped in the impenetrable cocoon of what he regards as a divine mission could have spoken of apartheid as " a policy of good neighbourliness . " We may be sure that he is not being hypocritical . That is what he really believes . A good neighbour to those Africans who , under apartheid , will be forced back to their tribal reserves with no prospect but a cramped and primitive existence . A good neighbour to those Africans who will con- tinue to live as hewers of wood and drawers of water in the white areas of South Africa , without rights and without hope . THE same sort of good neighbour that he proved to be to the Jews fleeing from Hitler in the thirties . It was Dr. Verwoerd who led a protest against admitting any of them because they would " defile " the national white stock . It is impossible to make contact with Dr. Ver- woerd in his nightmare world . It is this that makes illusory any hopes that he may be in- fluenced to change course . The Archbishop of Capetown , Dr. Joost de Blank , has pleaded that South Africa should be allowed to stay in the Commonwealth . Otherwise , he says , those inside the country who still oppose apartheid will be left even more isolated and alone . The views of the Archbishop , who has maintained an unflinching witness to what Christianity really means , must carry weight . But what , in fact , can the other Commonwealth countries do to bring support and comfort to this gallant minority ? THERE is no evidence that the policy of appeasement has modified the actions of the Nationalists . On the contrary , apartheid is being applied ever more ruthlessly . The shock of expulsion from the Commonwealth now seems to be the only way left to try to bring home to the people of South Africa that Dr. Verwoerd is leading them to disaster . It may be that the Commonwealth Prime Ministers will decide against this final step . If that is their decision they should also go unequivocally on record that they regard apartheid as evil and indefensible . Unless they do at least that , Dr. Verwoerd will be able to return home claiming a triumph . His smile will be blander than ever . WE are in for it again : another Royal Wedding . Between now and June , when the Duke of Kent will marry Miss Worsley , hardly a day will pass without a story or a picture or probably both , about the nuptial arrangements . What seems certain is that those who advocate putting off any approach until Mr Krushchev gives evidence of a change of heart ( whatever that may mean ) would have us run risks greater than the West ought to run - and greater than President Kennedy's most influential advisers seem disposed to face . The real question is what we should put to the Soviet Government as a basis for talks : and On this reading what Mr. Gollancz calls manoeuvring , and what we should call cool-headed and inventive negotiation , is a means not to destruction but to safety . The Government's pompous little statement on Northern Rhodesia does not say much , but it says what is necessary - that the Northern Rhodesia Constitution is open to revision . This is news , however much the Government tries to disguise it by saying that the revision would be Formula One , which appeared in February , appeared to make this likely ; Formula Two , which appeared in June , made it very unlikely ; if Formula Three restores the original principle , that is all that need be required of it . It is a pity that the Government should ever have been led away from this principle . It is a great pity that the Government should give the appearance of responding , not to Mr Kaunda's reasonable representations , but to the violence which he tried to prevent . To be able to say " New York next week " is an important advance . We must not be overconfident that this # meeting will lead on to further and decisive ones ; but without it , we could not look for them . Federal Germany votes tomorrow and not a day too soon . There can seldom have been an election campaign which more people in and out of the country wanted to see over and done with . To Germany's Western allies the campaign has been a millstone weighing down and almost paralysing their efforts to work out sensible ways of dealing with the Berlin crisis . It need not have been such a burden if Western Governments had not been convinced that they must do nothing to harm even remotely Dr Adenauer's chances of being returned as Chancellor . But they were so convinced and they have had to take the consequences . Mean- while in Germany itself the course of the campaign has dismayed a good many people : they too will be glad when the polling stations close . But discussion on current points of east-west con- flict could not go much farther than , for example , the truism that policies of menace and mutual disarmament cannot be followed together . What the council has done - and it is an achievement - is to make religious con- tact across the greatest political barrier in what is not yet a unitary world . The notification he envisages must be given at least two days before the agreement is signed . To this there will be some opposition . The Bill is short and modest in scope , and it is doubtful whether the other Private Members' Bills in the offing will fill all the gaps . This fact may give the Government an extra excuse for counselling patience until the next report from the Molony committee . Comprehensive legislation is obviously preferable . They should not , however , disdain this opportunity of obtaining a useful sample of parliamentary opinion by at least allowing these Bills a fair run . Centigrade v. Fahrenheit . The fight is on . The challenger has behind it not only the authority of the SECRETARY of STATE for AIR but also the backing of the DIRECTOR GENERAL of the Meteoro- logical Office . The press and the broadcasting authorities are asked to help . To begin with , both tempe- ratures will be put in the ring together . SIR GRAHAM SUTTON , however , made no bones about it yesterday . The purpose is to give fahrenheit the knock out . The backers of centigrade would have got off to a better start if they had taken more pains to explain the advantages to the general public of the change . It is true that SIR GRAHAM said there is at the moment " an awful mess up " in the measurement of temperatures . This , however , seems a matter of the convenience of specialists . The ordinary British man and woman is conscious of no difficulty . Rather than fifty million people having to be put out for the sake of 50,000 is there any reason why the centigrade countries should not change to fahrenheit ? Can it be shown that the one scale is demon- strably better than the other ? The centigraders may be in for a stiffer fight than they think . They may have to call up the reinforcement of the Common Market . Even then it might be easier to persuade the British public to go over to decimal coinage - in certain circumstances the time would come when this would suit their convenience - rather than to change their system of recording temperatures . In any case , fahrenheit need not lose heart . Once before , and that not so long ago , the authorities ganged up to alter the habits of the people . That effort was to enforce the adoption of the twenty-four hour clock . Then , also , the B.B.C. were roped in . The only result was that the well-meaning corporation became very unpopular . A BAFFLED and bewildered little country stands at the centre of an international storm . Belgium is accused - without a scrap of evidence - of being implicated in the murder of Patrice Lumumba . Her leaders are insulted , her embassies are attacked in a score of countries . In Ghana , President Nkrumah , who has done more than most to stir up trouble in the Congo , orders every Belgian citizen to quit his country . HOUNDING Belgium has become an international pastime . Why ? Because those who said the Congolese could govern themselves will not admit they were wrong . So Belgium , bowed down by internal troubles , mourning a terrible air crash , is made their scapegoat . Who will speak for Belgium ? Who else but Britain . We have fought beside Belgium in two world wars . We are allies still . Britain should champion Belgium . Not with the careful , hooded language of diplomacy , but boldly and fearlessly . It is time to show the world that this country does not desert her friends . HAPPY , happy families ! Never before have Britain's larders been so well stocked . Supplies of meat and dairy produce were substantially higher last year than in 1959 . Lucky , lucky housewives ! To have such a splendid variety of goods to choose from . Not so long ago older folk were reminding young wives , # harassed by shortages , of the good old days of abundance . Now it is mother who picks up recipes from # her daughter . The dinner table is the best answer to the grumblers in Britain today ! " THIS is colour day , " proclaimed the American television network , N.B.C. And hour after hour it poured out its programmes in bright colours . In America colour TV is five years old . There are already 600,000 sets in use . What about Britain ? The B.B.C. is ready to launch a colour TV service , but the commercial TV contractors want to delay it for 10 years . The Government should settle this argument with two words to the B.B.C. : - Go ahead ! ONE man beyond all others is saddened by the deaths of two elderly sisters who killed themselves because they had to leave their cottage . Mr. John Crabb , clerk to Newmarket urban council , says : " I shall always feel this as a personal failure . " There is no reason whatsoever why he should reproach himself . The sisters had to quit as their home was falling down . And Mr. Crabb did his best for them , even driving them to a new house . John Crabb has the qualities of sympathy and understanding . Too often lacking in officialdom . MR. HENRY NEWTON of Acton does not want his daughter to marry a Scotsman . He says that the Scots are foreigners who have no business to be in England . The first ruler of the United Kingdom was a Scot . The Lord Chancellor is a Scot . The Prime Minister is a Scot - and so were four of his predecessors this # century . Let Mr. Newton beware . By protesting against Scotland he may be guilty of rebellion ! ARCHBISHOP MAKARIOS puts the Commonwealth on trial . His ex-Eoka Government decides that Cyprus will join it for five years . During this period Britain will be expected to subsidise and defend the Cypriots . They will enjoy all the trading benefits of Imperial Preference . It is a safe bet that at the end of five years Makarios and company will sign on again . It is equally certain that the British Government will welcome them . How splendid it would be if , just for once , the Government were to voice the real feelings of the British people . And tell Makarios they are not prepared to accept him on such terms . GOOD cheer for the week-end . Ford Motors are to put 13,000 men back on a five-day week . One more demonstration of the industry's recovery . As springtime approaches , orders pick up . And the car men get ready for another bustling season . The pessimists said the motor industry was on its knees . The optimists said " Nonsense . " As usual , the optimists have been proved right . EARL RUSSELL and his friends have hit on an original way of spending this afternoon . They intend to sit outside the Ministry of Defence . It is their protest against the H-bomb . They ought to have a pleasant time . The weather forecast is good ; except for them , Whitehall should be deserted . And they will have a fine view of St. James's Park , with its placid lake , pelicans , rare ducks , and other wild life . Why not follow Lord Russell's lead today ? Head for the parks to enjoy the sun . Not in a foolish cause , but in a glorious one . Good health ! THIS group of men , says a report , work on average between 55 and 60 hours a week . They also put in an extra two or three evenings . And they never go on strike . Who are they ? The trade union officials of Britain . Men who earn only a fraction of what their talents and responsibilities could bring in the open labour market . The unions are fortunate indeed to find dedicated leaders at cut-rate prices . But it is time the members decided to pay up and be good employers . THE Labour Party says that the Tory Government is destroying the social services . Under the Labour Government 18.1 per cent of the national income was spent on social services . The present figure is 19.5 per cent. There are many worthwhile targets for the Opposition . What a pity to aim at the wrong one ! MRS. MARCIA POWER , whose husband made her clean his uniform , wins a divorce . The judge says she had to act almost as a serf . Up and down the country husbands will be saying they would never behave like that . But do they ever ponder how their gardening tools are mysteriously returned to the shed ; their books tidied ; and often , even their shoes cleaned ? How wonderful if they showed their appreciation this morning with a surprise box of chocolates or a bunch of flowers ! HOW the Government must repent its haste and folly in Rhodesia ! Eighteen months ago this territory was peaceful , orderly , and thriving . Africans within the Federal Government were getting valuable experience in administration . Then Mr. Iain Macleod became Colonial Secretary . Suddenly everything changed . Timetables were scrapped . The ill-conceived Monckton Commission was rushed out to Rhodesia . Overnight , minor African politicians were inflated into international figures . And as the British Government stepped up the pace of change , so the Africans stepped up their demands . TODAY , in London , that rash and thoughtless policy has caused a crisis - a crisis that never should have happened . No wonder there is doubt and fearful heart-searching . If the Government now reverses its plan to give the Africans control in Northern Rhodesia it may indeed face difficulties from African politicians greedy for power . But if it fails to modify that plan Rhodesia may well be plunged into chaos , like the Congo . For Mr. Macmillan and his ministers there is no choice . They must safeguard Rhodesia against chaos . And try to repair the damage they have done . WHO can grow the fastest ? That is the exciting competition going on among Britain's major industries . Top of the table , at the moment , is the chemical industry . Then comes engineering , followed by iron and steel . Even the staid and timid Treasury is cheered by the tremendous upsurge in investment . It reports that new factory building this year is likely to be 40 per cent up on 1960 . Britain's business men are right to back their faith with cash . For expansion today means still greater prosperity tomorrow . BERTRAND RUSSELL , the 88-year-old standard bearer of the Ban- the-Bomb crusade , has devoted following . Thousands march with him - and sit with him too . It is said by some that he is a saint ; by others that he is a prophet . He is , in fact , a philosopher with a highly developed sense of publicity who has been spectacularly wrong on the great issues of our time . BEFORE the war he urged the British people to welcome Hitler's troops as tourists . After the war he favoured a preventive war against Russia . Now he wants Britain to demolish her defences . Throughout the years Lord Russell and his supporters have been able to pursue their eccentric campaigns in freedom . They should ask themselves this question : How long would that freedom last if their policies were adopted ? AN experiment in courtesy is launched by the Electricity Board . The board is laying a cable along a seven- mile route in Surrey . A warden , Mr. Jack Finlay , has been appointed to smooth out difficulties for householders when trenches are dug outside their front gates . Splendid . By showing concern for the people the board will earn their good will . Happy patrolling , Mr. Finlay ! GOOD for Sir Roy Welensky ! The tough , resolute Premier of the Rhodesian Federation shakes the life out of his critics . He calls them " jelly-boned . " He promises to preserve federation against African fanatics and woolly minded individuals in the West . Some may ask : Is Welensky justified in being so harsh to those who disagree with him ? The facts answer that . CONTRAST his firm , successful rule in Rhodesia with what has happened in the Congo . There Welensky's opponents have carried their theories into practice . There a UNO army of Africans , bossed by an Indian , has been in charge for months . And what has it made of the Congo ? A bloodstained shambles . No wonder Welensky has lost all patience with his misguided tormentors . They have earned his strictures . And his contempt . SOME people are for ever complaining that teenagers earn too much and spend it all when they get it . Now a survey of the Post Office Savings Bank shows how wrong that idea is . The biggest group of depositors in the bank is made of boys and girls aged 15 to 19 . Certainly teenagers earn more than ever before . Certainly they spend more . But how splendid that in the most prosperous days in this country's history the old-fashioned virtue of thrift should still have a powerful appeal for young people . THE Danes are annoyed with British farmers for fighting against Danish competition . They say that our farmers do not seem to understand the meaning of free trade . There is no doubt what the Danes understand by free trade . It is that they should be free to sell as much as they like , while buying more and more from our rivals . Germany has now supplanted Britain as Denmark's principal supplier . The farmers of Britain understand free trade . That is why they fight it . THE Palace cinema at Buckley , near Chester , will be reopened next week by Barry Flanagan and Eric Platt , both aged 19 . Eric says : " We believe in the cinema . And we know what people want . " The combination of enthusiasm and shrewd anticipation of public taste has launched many great enterprises . Barry and Eric have enthusiasm . They are backed by a resurgent film industry . It could be curtain up on two success stories . Of the old Palace . And Barry and Eric . DONS at Cambridge want the study of agriculture to become an honours degree course . Farming is Britain's most vital industry . It is increasingly dependent on new techniques - and on the universities to provide men of knowledge and skill . The older universities are often accused of being interested only in dead subjects . Now Cambridge has the opportunity to show is just as interested in the living . Particularly as its rival , Oxford , has had a similar course in farming for 15 years ! JOHN GLENN , Virgil Grissom , Alan Shepard . One of these three men has a date with destiny - the first journey into Space . At the beginning of this wonderful century many people believed that there were no more worlds to conquer . Nobody 's going to shove 2ole Uncle Sam around ! " He then took out a piece of paper , wrote his address on it and added : " Anybody mucking the Yanks about had better call on me first . I won't stand for it . " Exit a puzzled American . The other incident occurred in the boat-train from Cherbourg to Paris . The travellers from the New World who had been in Britain many times before , were slightly stunned . Afterwards they said : " We thought we knew it all , but you Britishers never run out of unturned stones . " To the British Travel Association , doing their excellent darndest , I offer these sad complexities . IN the 1830's the Luddites took sledge-hammers to their looms and many a good trade unionist since then has , in the hope of improving the lot of his fellow workers , taken the theoretical Luddite hammer again . Hence the hostility to automation and the stop-watch manufacturing methods that have # led to restrictive practices . Now a new threat to those who toil and spin has been developed by a firm specialising in electronics in Los Angeles . They have developed a new system whereby completely untrained workers can be taught their trade by means of tape recordings and television . What happens is that the unskilled worker is processed , by high-speed listening to recorded instructions on how to do the job coupled with explanatory TV pictures , into becoming a highly skilled , obedient craftsman in no time at all . Not only can the raw human mind be technically equipped very quickly to do one set of skilled manufacturing processes in one trade but , by being given another of the new audio-TV training techniques , he can be switched to a different industry if he just gives in and From being an assembler in an aircraft factory to becoming a paint sprayer in a ceramic factory , he can be qualified for a completely new job in less time than it takes to say " Tolpuddle Martyrs ! " " CRICKET , " says the Oxford Dictionary , is " an open air game played with ball , bats and wickets between # two sides consisting of eleven players each . " Not so , dear Oxford Dictionary . You are out of date . Cricket in 1961 is played with a theodolite , six surveyors , a ball ; bats and wickets between two sides . Shades of the village stalwarts of Hambledon who are now the patron saints of the game ! What would THEY have thought of these civil engineers creeping about the pitch with their optical instruments ? The village green is the real home of cricket . A couple of bumps on a pitch have no terrors for a good batsman with a stout heart , a firm grip on the willow and a hefty contempt for batting averages and all the statistical blight that makes a mighty six these days as rare as frostbite in summer . They 'll be clapping the man who plays a straight theodolite next . EICHMANN continues # to reveal the extraordinary divisions of the German mind . Not content with arguing that he was only an efficient cog in the machine , he now claims that part of the endless massacre that led to the death of six million Jews was " decent , feasible and workable . " He feels satisfaction " from the fact that my personality had been tested and weighed and not found wanting . " He feels like Pontius Pilate who washed his hands before the multitude saying : " I am innocent of the blood of this just person . " Like Dr. Globke , whom I interviewed the other day , Eichmann said : " I drew a certain solace from the fact that I did what I could despite my low rank . " Eichmann is on dangerous ground when he pleads that he was only a small unit on the base of the triangle that led to Hitler , Himmler , Hess and Goering at the apex . In examination he betrayed an expert and intimate knowledge of every link in the chain of command that led to the top . He understood the whole apparatus with an exact and meticulous comprehension that could only have come from a man who used the system - and used it with power and authority . The appalling thing about the Germans is that they can kid them- selves and feel a sense of righteousness when their hands are red with blood . They really believed that the Treaty of Versailles was an iniquitous injustice . When they burst into Czechoslovakia , Poland , Holland , Belgium and France they really believed Hitler when he screamed at them that they were being " encircled . " They really believed in the moral superiority of " The New Order " which Himmler on October 4 , 1943 , expressed thus : " Whether nations live in prosperity or starve to death like cattle interests me only in so far as we need them as slaves to # our Kultur ; otherwise it is of no interest to me . This concept of slavery included Britain . General Brauchitsch signed a directive ordering that after the successful invasion of our islands all the " able-bodied male population between the ages of seventeen and forty-five will , unless the local situation calls for an exceptional ruling , be interned and dispatched to the Continent . " The Baltic States were to have been our destination . In no other conquered country , not even Poland , had the Germans begun with such a drastic step . There is no doubt that the compatriots of Eichmann would have been as good as their evil word . THE Inland Revenue people have a thankless task . But they do not make themselves less disliked by their attitude to their customers - who incidentally pay their salaries . Their demands are invariably couched in hectoring , out-of-date language , but in spite of all their bluster , they let many a big fish through the net while they are bullying the minnows . I have just heard a good example of their officious efficiency . A young chap I know got his first job last week . He is paid monthly in arrears and will not get a bean for the next twenty-one days . It was called " Abou Ben Adhem and the Angel . " I don't know why I was so impressed with this poem but , on re- flection , it might be that I took a guilty interest in the devilment busi- ness . I may well have felt that I was hell-bound under a strict Presbyterian upbringing and a possible reprieve might come through the sugary sentiments of " Abou Ben Adhem . " SOME 17 years ago , in the early summer of 1934 , the German ambassador in London was dictating a secret report to his chief von Papen , in Berlin . " Britain is uncomfortable in her role of champion of German rearmament , in opposition , to France . " Later that year he warned that Britain knew Germany was breaking the agreement to stop building bombers , and added : " Without Britain's tolerance German rearma- ment in the air would be jeopardised . " When Hoesch's reports , along with other nazi documents , were captured and published after the war the pattern of British Government connivance became clear . At nazi Germany's request , Britain was providing the cloak for Germany to build an air force bigger than that of France . Yesterday West German Defence Minister , Herr Strauss , started talks with the British Defence Minister , Mr. Watkinson . Their talks are another stage in the cloak operation , 1961 variety , by which the West German militarists are advancing their rearmament . Herr Strauss told the Daily Mail last October that his policy was to make his country the " strongest militarily in Europe and the United States' principal Nato ally . " His job is to build up the military apparatus which will back West Germany's economic domination of Western Europe through the Common Market . He continued this week the argument with Mr. Watkinson which he had in public at a Nato council meeting last year over the question : do we fight a 30-day war or a 90-day war ? A 90-day war , the West German view , provides the pretext for huge German armed forces ( within Nato of course ) and for those to have bases all over Western Europe . In the past year West Germany has secured agreements for " facilities " in France , Holland and Belgium . After much bargaining the British Government has agreed to give similar " facilities " The process has been too slow for Herr Strauss and last month he attacked Britain for being an obstacle for West Germany's plans for a " unified supply apparatus " in Nato . ( A supply apparatus which would link together the various West German " facilities . " ) By the end of the year there will be 11 German divisions in Nato compared with four divisions of British troops . Alongside these divisions a force of over 600 Starfighters provided by the Americans is growing up . These " fighters " are in fact fighter bombers which could launch an atomic attack on Eastern Europe . By 1963 the Germans plan to have nine missile battalions , with 288 missiles and 36 firing ramps , including weapons like Matador ( range 950 miles ) , also provided by the Americans . Last month West Germany was reported to be halfway toward this target . Her position as " America's principal Nato ally " grows stronger and stronger . Now this target which Herr Strauss and his fellows have their eyes on is control of the warheads to these weapons . General Heusinger , the man who caused a great disturbance last autumn All this has been achieved through Nato under American leadership . But a big role has been played not only by the British Government but by Right-Wing Labour in this country . They have helped build up Nato and rearm Western Germany , in pursuit of the old familiar anti-Soviet policy which brought disaster in 1939 . Now the argument is being used that Nato must be maintained and Britain must stay in it to keep the Germans in control . Nato , far from being a means of controlling the German militarists , is , in fact , the cover for building up their power . What must Britain do ? Today , again , she has a key role . Let her tell men like Strauss that he shall have no bases or " facilities , " no help in his quest for atomic arms . A policy which breaks with military alliances like Nato and seeks friendship with the Soviet Union can prevent another betrayal like that of the '30s . Shipbuilding Draughtsmen , writing in his personal capa- city : * # I WAS pleased to read J. R. Camp- bell's article , for , as president of a union which fought for and still stands on the policy decisions established at the Scar- borough Labour Party Conference I am appalled at the character of the current For many years my union had to present its views to the two major conferences of the movement and take a licking . For us , unity meant accepting unpalatable majority decisions as binding on the movement and having a go next time . Alongside many others , we conducted our fight by putting down # unambiguous alternatives to official policy and seeking to win majorities for them . When Scarborough carried our point of view we were naturally delighted , more so because the alternatives had been put clearly to the movement , which had then chosen a vigorous anti-Nato , anti-Tory , anti-bomb and anti-German rearmament policy . Hopes rose as we saw a perspective of sharp struggle based on consistent lines of difference with the Tories . Many members understood that the bread-and-butter struggles of the union would become easier in the context For we have always felt , even if we have then by our practice ignored it , the inconsistency between support for the war alliance , with resulting colossal spending on armaments , and our basic effort to improve living standards . Instead , we saw the Gaitskellites using the position of organisational dominance established during their years They obstructed every effort to fight for the Scarborough decisions , while # scratching around frantically to overturn them next time . Confusion of the original issue by misrepresentation of the decisions , the introduction of a pseudo third way and the call for party unity - in effect , a demand that the movement unite with the Gaitskellites on their policy and no other seems to have done the trick of moving a number of unions It would become easy to become cynical and to despair . And yet , wherever the issues were put clearly , sections of the movement reaffirmed their original stand . Only where the issues were posed so as to cause doubt and confusion were positions lost . It is my view that this immediate confusion hides the fact that the Peace movement is still advancing and that clarification of the issues can bring a majority to # secure the Scarborough decisions . Powerful units have stood firm . In unions where the central issues were confused , clear policy details - as on bases - were decisively carried . This , and the numbers of active workers who are beginning to understand how and why the trick was done , provides a strong , immediate basis for a campaign against weak and doubtful positions , and for a consistent peace policy . All recent events show how correct the Scarborough decisions were . The Kennedy Administration's sharpened policies , the speeded-up drive to improve West Germany's armament , the new attempt to rush Britain into the European Common Market , and the kite-flying on Spain present a whole new proof that to abandon Scarborough is to expose Britain and her working class to sharp new dangers - that Gaitskellism is bankrupt . Ordinary working people will never rally to defend a policy founded on political chicanery or elect a Labour Government to carry through Tory policy - Gaitskell's stupid hope . The tragedy is that enormous inroads could already have been made into Tory strength by a fighting policy , based on Scarborough . THE desire for unity in the Labour and trade union movement following the At the same time that unity cannot be established on a false basis , or by creating further confusion within the movement . Unity will never be established on the basis of leaders being a law unto themselves and opposing conference decisions when it suits their own convenience . Unity can never be established by any formula uniting those who oppose German troops being trained on British soil and Polaris , and those who are for this policy - which is the same as that of the Tory Government . It is impossible for Labour's new Defence state- ment to unite the movement as the Labour leaders are not only in favour of American bases , but are in favour of German bases and troops being trained on British soil . The new Defence statement , while accepting that Britain can- not remain an independent nuclear Power , now supports the policy of depending on American nuclear weapons and the H-bomb , placing Britain in an even more dangerous position . The statement of Padley and Crossman is no different in principle to the new defence statement . They accept American nuclear bases , and also the use of nuclear weapons and nuclear strategy until some future date . They deceive the people by their talk of political and collective control of Nato . The Pentagon has made it perfectly clear who controls the American H-bomb , and who will actually give the instructions to press the button for nuclear warfare . There is only one way to develop unity and at the same time defend Britain . This was shown at the Scottish Trades Union Congress , representing 800,000 organised trade unionists , when it decided by overwhelming votes , to reaffirm the Scarborough decisions on unilateral disarmament , and to oppose Polaris and military bases being installed on the Holy Loch , or any other part of Britain . Such a policy would unite the whole movement and lay the basis for the defeat of the present Tory Government , which has become a real menace to the British people both in home and foreign policy . It is quite evident that the movement will go on record against the Polaris base and facilities for German bases and military training . This should strengthen the campaign to end the manufacture and use of nuclear weapons in Britain . Britain then could play a leading and independent role for an international agreement to ban all nuclear strategy and weapons of mass destruction , and lay the basis for real peace and progress . WHEN all the ballyhoo about Commonwealth Training Week subsides it is doubtful whether more than a handful of new apprenticeships This week of window dressing will not prevent most of the hopeful 15-year-olds leaving school in six weeks time from ending up in blind alley jobs . It needs more than 10,000 church parades and open days at techs , more than descents into Brighton's sewers or balloon ascents over Wolverhampton for Britain's technical training to catch up with the space age . The heli-hopping Duke of Edinburgh , opening a few technical college extensions , will not keep us abreast of the scientific revolution . Out of the 550,000 young people aged 15-17 starting work in 1960 420000 ( 73 per cent ) went into unskilled work . The per- centage is expected to swell to 80 next year . The Duke , possibly speaking from experience , stated : But the Duke is wrong when he implies that young people prefer unskilled jobs . Countless numbers who want training are denied it . One area electricity board in 1958 offered six craft apprenticeships and received 450 applications , of whom 100 were considered suitable by the board . There were only 17 vacancies for the 58 boys who passed the Admiralty exams for Rosyth dockyard last year . The production by Bill Duncalf compressed a long and sometimes rambling story into a concentrated comprehensive survey of a life work . P. J. K. HANS WERNER HENZE'S " Elegy for Young Lovers " is the first unambiguously " contemporary " work to be admitted to the Glyndebourne canon . By no means a masterpiece , it is in many respects a representative modern work and the composer is a highly skilled manipulator of contemporary idioms , with a strong sense of words and situation . The libretto , by W. H. Auden and Chester Kallman , is largely a satire on the petty court surrounding an ageing poet , whose deeply egocentric character leads him to sacrifice everything to his need of inspiration . Henze obtains his musical characterisation by means of individual instrumental timbres and " personal " intervals , and the result is often less delineation of character than caricature . This is also the chief , or at least the most successfully executed trait of the libretto , which contains an odd blend of highly The evil that Byron did certainly lived after him , and was even outmatched by the mischief perpetrated by almost every person who had been close to him . In turning over the bones Doris Langley Moore has brought to light a great deal of discreditable behaviour and a vision of mischief- making propensities of the leisured classes in the early 19th century which leaves one a little breathless . AFTER ten days of intermittent , near fatal ennui , the eleventh Berlin International Film Festival was suddenly jolted back to life by two extraordinary films , Bernhard Wicki's " Das Wunder des Malachias " ( " The Miracle of Father Malachias " ) and Michael- angelo Antonioni's " La Notte . " The num- ber of German film directors who have made first rate works in the last 25 years can be counted on the fingers of one It would now seem that Wicki's name must be added to this list , for his new film may well be a landmark in the revitali- sation of the German cinema . Wicki is not only a director . He began his career as an actor , had his first important film ro*?5le in Ka"utner's " Die letzt Bru"cke , " and he also appears in the new Antonioni film . In 1950 he began to take photographs not only in Germany but also in Africa and America . An exhibition of these works which is now on view in a Berlin gallery is most im- pressive . As Friedrich Du"rrenmatt , the Swiss playwright and author , wrote : " Wicki's blacks and greys are not only the colours of the lost and the forgotten , but they are also the technical means of abstraction . Every unnecessary detail , all superfluous local colouring must be eliminated . He does not want the accuracy of a police photograph , but rather he wants to show the eternal in every instant . " The chilling horror of " Mala- chias " is due as much to Wicki the photo- grapher as to Wicki the director . His earlier film , " Die Bru"cke , " was equally terrifying , but here the director moves out of the world of reality into an icy supernatural vacuum Following Bruce Marshall's original novel with considerable fidelity , the film tells the story of a little monk who prays that a disrepu- table night club near his church be re- moved . One night his prayer is answered and the offending establishment is suddenly transplanted to an island in the North Sea . But Father Malachias's troubles have only begun . Instead of having the desired effect , the miracle becomes exploited by a group Soon a carnival springs up on the sight of the missing building . The Church rebukes the poor monk for his miracle , and as a crowning indignity the night club is given a gala society reopening on the island . Father Malachias goes to the island , prays , and in a second miracle the night club is replaced in its original setting . A summary of the story can give almost indication of the scope of Wicki's artistry . He tells his story best in the faces of his crowds , recording every wrinkle and drop of sweat with brutal honesty , building up to a tremendous climax in the island orgy . Here , the guests arrive in ghost-like yachts , the wildly flapping white sails slashed by the glaring beacon of a lighthouse . When the final miracle does occur , it is accepted as a marvellous joke ; no one has learned anything . Wicki suddenly returns to the city for a final epilogue . In complete silence he shows the faces of people walking in the streets , smug , content , satisfied , and thoroughly frightening . Wicki has succeeded in his second film in recording his personal apocalypse of the last days of a sick society . It is most unfair to call " Malachias " a cut-rate " Dolce Vita , " for it is far more intimate and deeply felt . In 1944 Herbert Selpin tried a similar feat in " Titanic " by paralleling the last days of the Third Reich with the sinking of the great ocean liner , and paid for his audacity with his life . Strangely enough , the Berlin audience received the film with extreme coolness , much preferring Jean-Luc Godard's disappointing " Une Femme est une Femme , " a ninety-one minute hymn to " Vogue , " " Cahiers du Cinema , " and the worst aspects of the American cinema . From a brilliantly funny start , the work fizzles out into a series of repetitious sight-gags and personal jokes incomprehensible to the uninitiated ( including four plugs for Charles Aznavour ) . This director is at last being re-evaluated and given his proper place in the history of the German film . Most charming was his tongue-in-cheek " Unheimliche Geschichten " ( 1920 ) , five ghost stories with a light touch , and there was much to admire in " Dreyfus " ( 1930 ) and the virtually unknown but extremely important " 1914 " ( 1931 ) , which tries to show that it took more than just Germany to start the First World War . Sentence Database C02-059 Prizes being what they are , Berlin is unusually generous in giving everyone something , and silver bears are awarded in every direction . Both the Antonioni and Wicki films took high honours , and the audience at the awards was particularly enthusiastic when one Miss Anna Kerima was selected as best actress for her work in the Godard film . Gifted with an interesting face , although little acting ability , she would seem to be well worth watching in the months to come . It has a great look of speed and technical fun about it , of enormous cinematic enjoyment , and above all of cinematic sense . Much of it has that air of improvisation , as of off-the-cuff living , that once seemed so new and so attractive . The story ( not that the story , in the sense of plot , matters much ; but in the sense of situation and movement it matters a lot ) is that of a man on the run ( Jean-Paul Belmondo ) , who spends a few days with an American girl Belmondo reappears at the Paris Pullman in Moderato Cantabile ( curiously trans- lated into Seven Days ... Seven Nights ... A certificate ) , Peter Brook's film made in France and shown last autumn at the London Film Festival . In spite of magnificent performances from him and from Jeanne Moreau , this has been fairly well trounced by the critics wherever it has appeared . Leisurely , even slow , With a large blond youth of quite dazzling dumbness called Troy Donahue ; and Claudette Colbert , still charming amid the nonsense , and Karl Malden not knowing how to take it , all rolling eyeballs like a villain from East Lynne . The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square Theatre tomorrow . It has been produced an directed by Mr. Tony Richardson , who is also part-author with Miss Delaney of the script , and the great advantages to be derived from this unity of conception and control are everywhere apparent . The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square Theatre tomorrow . It has been produced and directed by Mr. Tony Richardson , who is also part-author with Miss Delaney of the script , and the great advantages to be derived from this unity of conception and control are everywhere apparent . The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square Theatre tomorrow . It has been produced and directed by Mr. Tony Richardson , who is also part- author with Miss Delaney of the script , and the great advantages to be derived from this unity of conception and control are everywhere apparent . The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square Theatre tomorrow . It has been pro- duced and directed by Mr. Tony Richardson , who is also part-author with Miss Delaney of the script , and the great advantages to be derived from this unity of conception and control are everywhere apparent . The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square Theatre tomorrow . It has been produced and directed by Mr. Tony Richardson , who is also part-author with Miss Delaney of the script , and the great advantages to be derived from this unity of conception and control are everywhere apparent . The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square Theatre tomorrow . It has been produced and directed by Mr. Tony Richardson , who is also part-author with Miss Delaney of the script , and the great advantages to be derived from this unity of conception and control are everywhere apparent . This is not a filmed play . It has been conceived throughout in terms of the cinema , and again and again it is the visual qualities of the story , and the marriage of the central characters to their background , which bring the film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which also has its premiere tomorrow , the director , Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to create the atmosphere of a city . This is not a filmed play . It has been conceived throughout in terms of the cinema , and again and again it is the visual qualities of the story , and the marriage of the central characters to their background , which bring the film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which also has its premiere tomorrow , the director , Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to create the atmosphere of a city . In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken a town in the industrial North of England and has made it live . The shabby streets and wet pavements , the school play-grounds , the public monuments and the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to the memory of " - are seen as an integral part of the story . This is not a filmed play . It has been con- ceived throughout in terms of the cinema , and again and again it is the visual qualities of the story , and the marriage of the central characters to their background , which bring the film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which also has its premiere tomorrow , the director , Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to create the atmosphere of a city . This is not a filmed play . It has been conceived throughout in terms of the cinema , and again and again it is the visual qualities of the story , and the marriage of the central charac- ters to their background , which bring the film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which also has its premiere tomorrow , the director , Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to create the atmosphere of a city . This is not a filmed play . It has been con- ceived throughout in terms of the cinema , and again and again it is the visual qualities of the story , and the marriage of the central characters to their background , which bring the film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which also has its premiere tomorrow , the director , Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to create the atmosphere of a city . This is not a filmed play . It has been concei- ved throughout in terms of the cinema , and again and again it is the visual qualities of the story , and the marriage of the central characters to their background , which bring the film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which also has its premiere tomorrow , the director , Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to create the atmosphere of a city . In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken a town in the industrial North of England and has made it live . The shabby streets and wet pavements , the school play-grounds , the public monuments and the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to the memory of " - are seen as an integral part of the story . In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken a town in the industrial North of England and has made it live . The shabby streets and wet pavements , the school play-grounds , the public monuments and the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to the memory of " - are seen as an integral part of the story . In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken a town in the industrial North of England and has made it live . The shabby streets and wet pavements , the school play-grounds , the public monuments and the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to the memory of " - are seen as an integral part of the story . In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken a town in the industrial North of England and has made it live . The shabby streets and wet pavements , the school play-grounds , the public monuments and the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to the memory of " - are seen as an integral part of the story . In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken a town in the industrial North of England and has made it live . The shabby streets and wet pavements , the school play- grounds , the public monuments and the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to the memory of " - are seen as an integral part of the story . In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken a town in the industrial North of England and has made it live . The shabby streets and wet pavements , the school play-grounds , the public monuments and the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to the memory of " - are seen as an inte- gral part of the story . But there is heart in the telling , and an intense realism in the situation . A young girl lives in a single dingy room with her slatternly , promiscuous mother . In such surroundings she learns sex is something sordid , and when she experiences it for the first time herself it is incoherently , clumsily , but half inquisitively . As is the case in Fanny her first lover is a sailor who leaves her to bear his child and sails away . But there is heart in the telling , and an intense realism in the situation . A young girl lives in a single dingy room with her slatternly , promiscuous mother . In such surroundings she learns sex is something sordid , and when she experiences it for the first time herself it is incoherently , clumsily , but half shyly and half inquisitively . As is the case in Fanny her first lover is a sailor who leaves her to bear his child and sails away . But there is heart in the telling , and an intense realism in the situation . A young girl lives in a single dingy room with her slatternly , promiscuous mother . In such surroundings she learns sex is something sordid , and when she experiences it for the first time herself it is incoherently , clumsily , but half shyly and half inquisitively . As is the case in Fanny her first lover is a sailor who leaves her to bear his child and sails away . But there is heart in the telling , and an intense realism in the situation . A young girl lives in a single dingy room with her slatternly , promiscuous mother . In such surroundings she learns sex is something sordid , and when she experiences it for the first time herself it is incoherently , clumsily , but half shyly and half inquisitively . As is the case in Fanny her first lover is a sailor who leaves her to bear his child and sails away . But there is heart in the telling , and an intense realism in the situation . A young girl lives in a single dingy room with her slatternly , promiscuous mother . In such surroundings she learns sex is something sordid , and when she experiences it for the first time herself it is incoherently , clumsily , but half shyly and half in- quisitively . As is the case in Fanny her first lover is a sailor who leaves her to bear his child and sails away . In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an old man . Here it is a young homosexual , estranged from women but yet moved by a strong maternal instinct to the unborn child as much as to the expectant mother , who acts as a protector and comforter to her in her hour of need . He shares her room and gives her his forlorn gift of companionship and sym- pathy - " you need someone to love you while you are looking for someone to love " . In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an old man . Here it is a young homosexual , estranged from women but yet moved by a strong maternal instinct to the unborn child as much as to the expectant mother , who acts as a protector and comforter to her in her hour of need . He shares her room and gives her his forlorn gift of companionship and sympathy - " you need someone to love you while you are looking for someone to love " . In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an old man . Here it is a young homosexual , estranged from women but yet moved by a strong maternal instinct to the unborn child as much as to the expectant mother , who acts as a protector and comforter to her in her hour of need . He shares her room and gives her his forlorn gift of companionship and sympathy - " you need someone to love you while you are looking for someone to love " . In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an old man . Here it is a young homosexual , estranged from women but yet moved by a strong maternal instinct to the unborn child as much as to the expectant mother , who acts as a protector and comforter to her in her hour of need . He shares her room and gives her his forlorn gift of companionship and sympathy - " you need someone to love you while you are looking for someone to love " . In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an old man . Here it is a young homo- sexual , estranged from women but yet moved by a strong maternal instinct to the unborn child as much as to the expectant mother , who acts as a protector and comforter to her in her hour of need . He shares her room and gives her his forlorn gift of com- panionship and sympathy - " you need someone to love you while you are looking for someone to love " . In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an old man . Here it is a young homo- sexual , estranged from women but yet moved by a strong maternal instinct to the unborn child as much as to the expectant mother , who acts as a protector and comforter to her in her hour of need . He shares her room and gives her his forlorn gift of companionship and sympathy - " you need someone to love you while you Arguably , the dramatist has committed a technical error in allowing Irene to speak for herself ; we would be altogether clearer in our minds about her if she remained a flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but not heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her few brief scenes effective , and Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives a performance of rare intelligence and restrained power . Arguably , the dramatist has committed a technical error in allowing Irene to speak for herself ; we would be altogether clearer in our minds about her if she remained a flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but not heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her few brief scenes effective , and Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives a performance of rare intelligence and restrained power . Arguably , the dramatist has committed a technical error in allowing Irene to speak for herself ; we would be altogether clearer in our minds about her if she remained a flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but not heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her few brief scenes effective , and Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives a performance of rare intelligence and restrained power . Arguably , the dramatist has committed a technical error in allowing Irene to speak for herself ; we would be altogether clearer in our minds about her if she remained a flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but not heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her few brief scenes effective , and Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives a performance of rare intelligence and restrained power . Arguably , the dramatist has committed a technical error in allowing Irene to speak for herself ; we would be altogether clearer in our minds about her if she remained a flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but not heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her few brief scenes effective , and Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives a perfor- mance of rare intelligence and restrained power . Arguably , the dramatist has committed a technical error in allowing Irene to speak for herself ; we would be altogether clearer in our minds about her if she remained a flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but not heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her few brief scenes effective , and Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives a performance of rare intelligence and restrained Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly effective , giving full value to the formal elements of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing them . Last night's play in the " Play of the Week " series on independent television , Then We Fall , by Mr. Paul Ferris , was a morality on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive power of unbridled ambition . Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly effective , giving full value to the formal elements of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing them . Last night's play in the " Play of the Week " series on independent television , Then We Fall , by Mr. Paul Ferris , was a morality on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive power of unbridled ambition . Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly effective , giving full value to the formal elements of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing them . Last night's play in the " Play of the Week " series on indepen- dent television , Then We Fall , by Mr. Paul Ferris , was a morality on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive power of unbridled ambition . Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly effective , giving full value to the formal elements of Betti's writing without over- emphasizing them . Last night's play in the " Play of the Week " series on independent television , Then We Fall , by Mr. Paul Fer- ris , was a morality on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive power of unbridled ambition . Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly effective , giving full value to the formal elements of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing them . Last night's play in the " Play of the Week " series on independent television , Then We Fall , by Mr. Paul Ferris , was a morality on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive power of unbridled ambition . Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly effective , giving full value to the formal elements of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing them . Last night's play in the " Play of the Week " series on independent television , Then We Fall , by Mr. Paul Ferris , was a morality on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive power of unbridled ambition . It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most treatments of its subject by attempting to generate a melodramatic inevitability which left its central character and the world around him in complete , unredeemable desolation . We could , perhaps , say whether or not the attempt succeeded if we had a little more faith in the way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated his characters . It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most treatments of its subject by attempting to generate a melodramatic inevitability which left its central character and the world around him in complete , unredeemable desolation . We could , perhaps , say whether or not the attempt succeeded if we had a little more faith in the way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated his characters . It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most treatments of its subject by attempting to generate a melo- dramatic inevitability which left its central character and the world around him in complete , unredee- mable desolation . We could , perhaps , say whether or not the attempt succeeded if we had a little more faith in the way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated his characters . It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most treatments of its subject by attempting to generate a melodramatic inevitability which left its central character and the world around him in complete , unredeemable desolation . We could , perhaps , say whether or not the attempt succeeded of we had a little more faith in the way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated his characters . It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most treatments of its subject by attempting to generate a melodramatic inevitability which left its central character and the world around him in complete , unredeemable de- solation . We could , perhaps , say whether or not the attempt succeeded if we had a little more faith in the way in which Mr. Ferris mani- pulated his characters . It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most treatments of its subject by attempting to generate a melodramatic inevitability which left its central character and the world around him in complete , unredeemable desolation . We could , perhaps , say whether or not the attempt succeeded if we had a little more faith in the way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated his characters . Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insensi- tively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife , always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell , the editor , always comically abashed by the events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the father-in- law , always comically grotesque ; they were not asked to modulate from their set moods but played with proper efficiency and , in the case of Mr. Richards , with lavish and suitably gaudy colour . Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insensitively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife , always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell , the editor , always comically abashed by the events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the father-in-law , always comically grotesque ; they were not asked to modulate from their set moods but played with proper efficiency and , in the case of Mr. Richards , with lavish and suitably gaudy colour . Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insensitively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife , always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell , the editor , always comically abashed by the events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the father-in-law , always comically grotesque ; they were not asked to modulate from their set moods but played with proper effi- ciency and , in the case of Mr. Richards , with lavish and suitably gaudy colour . Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insensitively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife , always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell , the editor , always comi- cally abashed by the events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the father-in-law , always comically grotesque ; they were not asked to modulate from their set moods but played with proper efficiency and , in the case of Mr. Richards , with lavish and suitably gaudy colour . Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insen- sitively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife , always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell , the editor , always comically abashed by the events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the father-in-law , always comically grotesque ; they were not asked to modulate from their set moods but played with proper efficiency and , in the case of Mr. Richards , with lavish and suitably gaudy colour . Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insensi- tively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife , always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell , the editor , always comically abashed by the events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the father-in-law , always comically grotesque ; they were not asked to modulate from their set moods but played with proper efficiency and , in the case of Mr. Richards , with lavish and suitably gaudy colour . Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose explicably from appreciable motives . The rest , one feels , were driven to effective action by the author in spite of the ineffectuality with which he had endowed them . One hopes that he is not asking us to believe that , because of their odd accents , they act oddly like the queer foreigners of tradition . Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose explicably from appreciable motives . The rest , one feels , were driven to effective action by the author in spite of the ineffectuality with which he had endowed them . One hopes that he is not asking us to believe that , because of their odd accents , they act oddly like the queer foreigners of tradition . Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose explicably from appreciable motives . The rest , one feels , were driven to effective action by the author in spite of the ineffectuality with which he had endowed them . One hopes that he is not asking us to believe that , because of their odd accents , they act oddly like the queer foreigners of tradition . Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose explicably from appreciable motives . The rest , one feels , were driven to effective action by the author in spite of the ineffectuality with which he had endowed them . One hopes that he is not asking us to believe that , because of their odd accents , they act oddly like the queer foreigners of tradition . Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose explicably from appreciable motives . The rest , one feels , were driven to effective action by the author in spite of the ineffectuality with which he had endowed them . One hopes that he is not asking us to believe that , because of their odd accents , they act oddly like the queer foreigners of tradition . Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose explicably from appreciable motives . The rest , one feels , were driven to effective action by the author in spite of the ineffectuality with which he had endowed them . One hopes that he is not asking us to believe that , because of their odd accents , they act oddly like the queer foreigners of tradition . NEXT month that friendly , effervescent performer Frankie Vaughan will burst on to the London Palladium stage in a new show . To paraphrase his well-known ditty : " He 'll have the limelight , they 'll give him the girls - and leave the rest to him . " I have a hunch that he will feel more at home in the old , star-studded West End than he will ever feel in Hollywood . His American bosses , 20th-Century Fox , have recently given Frankie the full , razzamataz , red-carpet treatment . But they haven't done a thing for his film career that Anna Neagle and Herbert Wilcox were not doing better here , before the platinum-plated Hollywood carrot was dangled before his nose . In his first Hollywood picture , " Let 's Make Love , " he was swamped by the know-how of Marilyn Monroe and Yves Montand . Against this couple Frankie , in a cardboard role , didn't stand a chance . Now comes " The Right Approach " ( Rialto , " A " ) , and it 's a glum business . He plays an aspiring actor - a selfish , arrogant , brash , ambitious , unscrupulous heel - who would tread on anybody's neck to get a break in the Hollywood ratrace . He double-crosses the five pals with whom he lives , cheats a waitress ( Juliet Prowse ) and cynically uses a magazine editress ( Martha Hyer ) to get ahead . Frankie Vaughan is too nice a chap to ring quite true as a smooth-tongued , ill-mannered Yank . His best moments are when he swings breezily into the title song . But 6,000 miles seems a heck of a way to go for a new hit song . He might be well advised to think hard and long before his next jump into the Hollywood arena . VERDICT : Vaughan should have by-passed this approach . RONALD Lewis has just left for his first taste of the Hollywood treatment , thanks to a sound performance in " Taste of Fear " ( Warner Theatre , " X " ) . He has earned his break . The film is a well-made variation on that sinister yarn in which half the cast try to persuade the heroine that she is out of her mind . Despite flagrant cheating the eerie atmosphere is built up neatly . Susan Strasberg is the crippled damsel in distress . Stepmother Ann Todd and doctor Christopher Lee are also effectively around . They provide some chilly red herrings in this " Find-the-body " thriller . VERDICT : Don't believe all you see and hear ! NOT for the first time the homely mug of Sidney James has pumped life into a slim , strained comedy . He does his rescue act in " Double Bunk " ( Leicester-square Theatre , " A " ) . Navigator Sid is a tower of strength when newly-weds Ian Carmichael and Janette Scott let loose their ancient houseboat on a honeymoon trip down the river . The film starts off brightly enough but , half-way through , the plot ( as well as the boat ) springs a near-disastrous leak . Familiar members of Britain's repertory team of comedy character-actors jump through equally familiar hoops to mild laughter . VERDICT : The " bunk " needed doubling . DONALD HOUSTON had a big success on A T V's " Drama '61 " last night as a smooth , scheming jewel thief in a play by Jacques Gillies , " The Takers . " A polished production by Quentin Lawrence , here , held together by Mr. Houston's accomplished performance as the master mind behind a gang of crooks . This plot to rob a French millionaire of 300,000 worth of jewellery struck me as ingenious . The play had style , moved at a quick pace and everyone did well . But it was Mr. Houston's evening . Earlier , on the Palladium show I found Stanley Holloway's act too long and not particularly entertaining . It was also a mistake to re-book Gene Detroy and his performing chimpanzees so soon after their previous appearance . Their offering last night differed little from their earlier act on this show a week or so ago . But the Mudlarks , with Jeff Mudd out of the Army and back with sister Mary and brother Fred , were in bright , zestful form . Why only two numbers , though ? It was not enough . " A FAIR COP , " the B B C Whitehall farce last night , looked like a rabbit warren in a field of corn . I can't recall a production where so many comics bolted in and out of holes so often . The jokes were a reshuffle of the same old lot - this time Brian Rix lost his skirt instead of his trousers . The action moved at tremendous speed , backed by some wonderful timing by the cast . I especially liked the tea-cup scene where six of the cast changed cups with the dexterity of Chinese jugglers . Carole Shelley as the newly-wed and Larry Noble as Smiler Perkins were the most laughable . They alone used a sharp edge to their humour and cut through the gormless standing corn around them . Perhaps it was accidental - I hope not . If ever a bag of humour needed a thorough shaking up the Whitehall farce is it when it comes to television . HOW do you get on records ? Well , you 've got to have something different . Sing slightly flat . All the good singers sing in tune . Twang a guitar slightly off key . Everybody 's fed up with the right way - so the best-seller charts say . Play an OLD 2pianna instead of a new one . You got to get it into your head , son ... people don't like things as they should be - not on record , anyway . Thus , musician David Lisbon's chances of being a starred disc solo pianist were greatly enhanced when he dug out A PACKET OF DRAWING-PINS . " Why not , " thought ex-soldier Mr. Lisbon , who is twenty-three , and lives in Dagenham , Essex , " press a thumb-tack into the nose of the hammers that strike the piano strings ? " He did , on his piano at home . There weren't enough tacks and he got only the middle hammers done . Then he tried it out for sound . Um-chink ... um-chink ... it went . Slightly flat and jangly in part . DELIGHTFUL ! He put the sound on tape . The tape went to the Philips company . Within two days Mr. Lisbon had a record contract . And they hauled his thumb-tacked joanna the thirteen miles to London for his first session . Now along comes his solo disc , featuring two of his own compositions , " Deerstalker " and " Almost Grown Up . " VERDICT : Mr. Lisbon has it taped . And tacked . And he says : " Just as well I had only one box of tacks - it might have been so different ... . " More news from the ivory-thumping dept. ... Russ Conway , who has tinkled his way to fame on an old 2pianna , comes in with another of his own works : " Parade of the Poppets " ( Columbia ) . But not one of his nimble-fingered best . GERMANY'S Russ Conway is a pianist who calls himself CRAZY OTTO . But nothing crazy about his pianistics . He pounds merrily away at a piece called " Piccadilly " ( Polydor ) . I find it cute . American pianist Floyd Cramer , who played for Elvis on " It 's Now or Never , " looks like having a success on his own with " On the Rebound " ( RCA ) . NEW boy on the vocal front is Rolly Daniels , who comes 5,000 miles from India to seek disc fame . Comedian Hal Monty saw him in Bombay , became his manager . And such is Hal's faith that he brings him to Europe . Now Rolly gets his big break - a record , the modern Aladdin's lamp of show business . Become a success with a disc and hey presto ! You 're a star ... . Rolly sings with assuredness " Bella Bella Marie " ( Parlophone ) , a lively song that changes tempo mid-way . I don't think he will storm the charts with this one , but it 's a good start . CHRIS CHARLES , 39 , who lives in Stockton-on-Tees , is an accountant . He is also a director of a couple of garages . And he finds time as well to be a lyric writer . He writes with Tolchard Evans , composer of " Lady of Spain " and other big hits . Tolch , as he is known in Tin Pan Alley , likes songs with a month in the title . He wrote " My September Love , " the big David Whitfield hit of 1956 . " Let 's have another song with a month in it , " said Tolch . Mr. Charles obliged with " April Serenade . " This week it appears , a tuneful melody sung impeccably by Robert Earl ( Philips ) . PRODUCER Russell Turner , 33 , provides his last programme for the B B C tonight with Robert Harbin's " Mystery and Magic " ( 7.30 ) . After six years with the Corporation , during which he started " Juke Box Jury " and directed " Six-Five Special , " Turner is aiming to go into free-lance T V , film and stage production work . " I feel I 've done all I can at the B B C , " he told me . " We mutually agreed to part . " Escapologist Dill-Russell is a guest in Harbin's show tonight . Boxing fans can see an eight-round feather-weight contest between Chris Elliot and Harry Carroll from Leicester ( B B C , 8.25 ) . A SONGS-OF-BRITAIN medley is sung by David Hughes in his " Make Mine Music " ( B B C , 9.30 p.m. ) . The numbers include " Scotland the Brave , " " Men of Harlech , " " McNamara's Band , " " Greensleeves " and " English Rose . " Fay Compton stars in " No Hiding Place " ( I T V , 9.35 p.m. ) . She plays the possessive mother of a man whose hobby revolves round a doll's house . THREE people will be hypnotised in tonight's " Lifeline " ( B B C , 10.15 ) . They will be asked to comment on the design of everyday articles such as a chair and a motor-car . The idea is to see what happens when parts of the mind not normally available without hypnosis are used . I T V have postponed Malcolm Muggeridge's " Appointment with playwright Arnold Wesker . " Instead , Muggeridge's appointment will be with Sir Roy Welensky the Premier of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland ( 10.30 p.m. ) . Say Granada T V , the producers : " We decided to make the switch because of the topicality of African affairs . The Wesker interview will be seen at a later date . " ACTOR Tom Courtenay was an outstanding success last night in I T V's " Private Potter , " his first big T V part . The play was a brilliantly-written essay on soldiering which stated that a fighting man could only be regarded as a machine . Potter screamed during an action , and was arrested . He claimed he had seen a vision of God - only the padre and his C O believed him . Courtenay played the part with a gawky , Northern defiance . The cameras played continuously on his craggy face , and obstinate , baffled eyes . They stripped him of his ugly battle-dress , to leave him for what he was - Potter , a frightened boy who had a vision . It was a splendid interpretation of the part . The rest of the cast were well chosen , with James Maxwell making a fine job of the sympathetic C O . Paul Daneman gave another first-class performance last night as a wartime naval officer in the B B C's " The Little Key . " The play was no more than a figment of the imagination which asked the viewer to believe in a beautiful ghost . It would have been an impossible piece of television but for clever production by Michael Hayes . He captured the atmosphere of fog and mystery to great effect . MORE than 100 viewers complained to the B B C last night that an American film , " Britain - Blood , Sweat , and Tears ... Plus Twenty Years , " was anti-British . The film replaced " What 's My Line ? " and " Be My Guest " programmes because of an electricians' strike . It showed Britain today through the eyes of an American T V reporter , Eric Sevareid , and British personalities . Among them - Professor Dennis Brogan , Shelagh Delaney , and Alan Sillitoe . The film covered a wide aspect of the British scene , ranging from pubs , the Eton wall game , to the European Common Market . Shelagh Delaney and Alan Sillitoe attacked education . It was left to reporter Sevareid to make the strongest criticisms . He said that in the race of the modern nations , Britain was slipping behind ... . IT is mid-morning on a Dublin Sunday . The streets are tranquilly sunny and still , for the town is at Mass . Most of it . In the front room of a house in Anglesey-road is a congregation who never actually got to church , but who are gathered with devotion around Brendan Behan and a brandy bottle . Where the 2bhoys are . In the hallway are the empties ; through the door hearts are full , hopes are high . There are still a few amber inches in the bottle . Present are some hard-core Friends of Brendan . They listen with many an obliging guffaw to the brandy owner's solo swish on his anecdotal roller-coaster , with occasional stops for an old I.R.A. air or a Connemara tear-jerker . ALSO present is a London journalist who arrived two hours earlier by appointment to talk to the author of Borstal Boy and The Hostage about his new work , if any , and who is now being pluckily convivial to fight off the frustration . The telephone has rung a couple of times , calls from other chums sniffing the wind and offering to drop by for a chat . At last Brendan - to the journalist's relief - turns his attention to the writing scene . He proceeds to place himself in the literary hierarchy . " I consider myself , " he says , " a cut above Evelyn Waugh socially , a cut above Nancy Mitford artistically , a cut above Frank Haxell conversationally . " But , " he continues , " the greatest is Shelagh Delaney . Just because A Taste That 's as bloody silly as calling a Rolls- Royce a type of transport . She 's the flower in a cultural desert . " Now , me - I 'm a journalist , I write to entertain rather than educate . And I don't write at all unless I 'm exceedingly 2skint . " But I 'll say this . I 'd like to live in America and do some writing there . It 's a very free place to write in , and there 's the advantage that no one knows what you 're writing about anyway . " Not that I did much when I was over this past two times , not with that great little Irish bar on Seventh Avenue , The Pigsty , always open . I was there , in even faster orbit , when that third astronaut went up - what 's his name ? I 'm the only man on earth who doesn't know what his name is . Don't tell me . I want to preserve that distinction . " I already know about Shepard and that Salvation Army chap Gagarin - the two biggest bores since Cardinal Newman . That 's enough of all that hooey . " HE plunges on into reminiscences of his trips . There is much to recall . Among other incidents he was banned from New York's St. Patrick's Day parade as a " disorderly person . " He was in a fight after telling a Canadian , during a chat about space-flight : " Ireland will put a shillelagh into orbit , Israel will put a matzo ball into orbit , and Lichtenstein will put a postage stamp into orbit before you Canadians put up a mouse . " And he suffered an alcoholic seizure and was gravely ill in hospital with a diabetic and heart condition . His return to Dublin was heralded by the announcement that he was " off the gargle - a retired alcoholic . " Since then he has been heard of often in the newspapers - three times up before the beaks for drunk and disorderly conduct . LESS has been heard of Brendan's work . It is now five years since his first play , The Quare Fellow , was produced , three years since Borstal Boy was published and The Hostage was put on . What has happened to the play , Richard's Cork Leg , begun 18 months ago and due for presentation at the Theatre Royal , Stratford , last spring ? It was never finished . What happened to the new book partially tape-recorded by his publishers in March of last year ? Still a skeleton . Yet I have before me now a 12,000-word manuscript of a book planned to be called Confessions of an Irish Rebel which was delivered to his agents in June . IT begins : " There was a party to celebrate Deirdre's return from her abortion in Bristol . " It is ribald , funny , brilliantly observant of character , and authentic as a glass of draught porter . But will we see its end ? The last scene of this fragment is in a pub where the author throws a 10 note on to the bar and orders a round for the pals , one of whom cries : I AM happy to report that I saw some- thing this week I have never before witnessed , either in pictures or outside - a budgerigar playing a drunk scene , and playing it with perfect timing and technique . It gives one loud , clear hiccup and falls flat on its back . This brilliant budge , I may add , gets no credit in the cast list of Come September ( Odeon , Leicester-square ) , which suggests that it is either using a stand-in for the stunt The performance of our talented feathered friend is not the only good thing ( although the one original touch ) in the film , which is better- than-average glossy comedy , Hollywood- styled , European set . Most of it has been shot in and around the sun-terrace of the Hotel Splendido ( renamed the Dolce Vista for the picture ) in Portofino - and if there 's a better view It also parades Gina Lollobrigida in a selection of neglige*? 2e-and-nightie ensembles not too well designed for sleeping in , and Rock Hudson at the wheel of a shining silver Rolls-Royce . Mr. Hudson is an American millionaire who spends each September in his Italian villa and the company of Signorina Lollobrigida . In the holiday seasonal months before and after this annual idyll his major-domo ( Walter Slezak at his most nauseating ) turns the palazzo into a luxury hotel . # Inevitably there comes the time when Mr. Hudson suddenly breaks with tradition and arrives there in July , when , just as inevitably , the place is full of American teenagers on an escorted tour . Result : Mr. Hudson and lady love Lollo find themselves playing chaperon ( Brenda de Banzie , the official one , has broken a leg ) to the girls , who have just been joined by a Jeep-load of boys . It 's hereabouts that the budge takes to the bottle , but I don't think it was through boredom . The film is funny enough in places and has a line or two of painful home truths thrown in . " I don't want to talk like an adult , " screams Gina , walking out on the man who has so far failed to make an honest woman of her . " That 's how I got into all this trouble . " " He 's got to be 35 , " says Bobby Darin , the chief spokesman of the jeans-and- Jeep brigadiers as they 're scheming to get rid of old man , solid Rock . " How many hills can he take ? " Of course Mr. Hudson can take one more hill than the youngsters . So all ends as you know it will , with the middle-aged romancers respectably wed and Master Darin going steady with the delectable Sandra Dee ( to whom , I believe , he is married in real life ) . Miss Dee , incidentally , who keeps turning up as the typical teenager in all the " good girl " parts ( Tuesday Weld gets the " bad girl " ones ) , is becoming quite an accomplished actress . THE Marriage-Go-Round ( Carlton ) is also a comedy of manners , but fun-films toting an X certificate have to keep a sharp look-out that the jokes about sex ( what else would they joke about with an X ? ) are of the witty , verbal variety and not the visual slapstick . This has only one gag - that of the entry of a gladiator The girl is a knock-out ( see pic- ture of Julie Newmar for con- firmation ) . She also has quite a mission in mind . She , " younger , prettier , stronger , and more intelligent " than the wife ( as she soon tells her ) , wants to have the perfect baby . And she has chosen the husband ( James Mason ) , who is an academic friend of her Nobel prize-winning father to be This sort of situation calls for some subtle , slightly sardonic handling . It doesn't get it . But The Marriage-Go-Round is not entirely a waste of time . I learned from it that in the Institutes of Advanced Studies attached to some American universities the subject Social Psychology used to be called Home-making and is now known as Domestic Relations . Susan Hayward plays the wife sharply and sweetly . Mason is always good for a glower . And Miss Newmar is a stunner in every sense of the word . According to the script she was once captain of the junior hockey team at her school . So help me so was I . IL GRIDO ( The Cry ) - Paris Pullman - is an earlier essay in atmospheric meandering by the L'Avventura man , Michelangelo Antonioni . ON a March evening in 1932 in the New Jersey family household the nursemaid tiptoed into the baby's room to see that 20-month-old Charles Jun. was sleeping . Bending over the cot , she suddenly realised that there was no sound of breathing . She thrust out her hand - and felt emptiness . A FEW minutes later the father gripping a loaded rifle , told his wife : The plain , sober manner of its style all the more tellingly points up not only the horror of the case itself , which floundered on to the electrocution four years later of a German- born Bronx carpenter named Bruno Richard Hauptmann , but to the raree-show emotionalism and sensation-hunger of that era . The second said that the problems which arise from the comparisons with the Synoptics can be reasonably solved by paying due regard to the time and plan and to the different public for which , or against which , the author wrote . The third article excluded any allegorical interpretation of the Gospel . There is a whole group of theories which attempt to explain the problems of the Fourth Gospel by explanations based on assumed textual dislocations . The present state of the Gospel is the result of an accident-prone history . The original was written on a roll , or codex , which fell into disorder or was accidentally damaged . An editor , who was not the author , made what he could of the chaos by placing the fragments , or sheets , or pages , in order . Most of those who expound a theory of textual dislocation take it for granted that the Gospel was written entirely by one author before the disturbance took place but a few leave it open to suppose that the original book had been revised even before the upheaval . The ingenuity of the theories is impressive and is the best argument against them . Thomas Spreng The one real weakness of the Commentator's case is that , in common with all his colleagues , he has not , until now , been able to exhibit exactly how this enlargement was effected nor has he been able to explain the textual movements by showing that such changes are part of a simple and coherent plan . To understand how this is possible it is necessary to examine the text of the Gospel . THE Fourth Gospel was almost certainly written in Greek . A modern text of the Gospel represents the work of generations of scholars who have compared the many manu- scripts of John and worked out the version which is most likely to have been the original wording . It is not possible to establish any one text with absolute precision . The most convenient one for the authors has been the text of A. Souter . In this version of the text the Fourth Gospel is printed as just over 1,000 different nouns , verbs , and other parts of speech occurring 15,695 times in their different grammatical forms . There are other texts which could have been used , and ( as shown in Table 1 ) it is not a matter of the greatest importance which text is used . At first sight the difference between Souter and the other texts is rather large . But the British text includes the paragraph 7.53-8.11 , the Woman taken in Adultery , and this accounts for 178 words out of 279 , which is the difference between the 15,695 words of Souter's text and the 15,416 of Nestle's . The omission or inclusion of this paragraph is a matter of editorial decision rather The bar was the commonest marking , but others were also used . Dots sometimes served in place of the bar , and there are cases where spacing is used as it is now used to mark a paragraph ending . Frequently paragraphos markings were omitted . C. H. Roberts is of the opinion that in the original of the Fourth Gospel some markings would be used , although which , it is impossible to say . Professor E. G. Turner is inclined to take the view that the original of the Gospel would be unmarked . The original of the Gospel , whether written on a roll or codex , whether paragraphed or not , would be laid out in columns . This is the invariable practice of ancient manuscripts . A common size of column would hold about one third of a page of Souter's print . The edge of this sheet was attached to a wooden dowel and the sheet wound round this central pin . The roll made a simple and serviceable book . It was robust - the number which have survived the centuries is ample evidence of this - and it was easily stored . It had two disadvantages . It was generally a single-sided form of book , and it was not an easy form of book in which to find a reference . This last objection might have had some weight in ecclesiastical circles . In his Natural History , 13 . 11-12 , the elder Pliny tells of the use of papyrus in roll-making . As Pliny was killed in the eruption of Vesuvius which overwhelmed Herculaneum and Pompeii in A.D. 79 , his information is contemporaneous with the New Testament . The other form of book was the codex . In this the sheets were bound together down one edge much as they are in modern books . Against these advantages the codex was fragile and might be bulky . It is sometimes possible to tell whether or not a particular text was written on a roll or a codex . Rolls were prepared for writing , but any papyrus left unused at the end could be cut off . If the text was longer than the roll , a sheet could easily be glued on . The verso of the roll was blank , and one cannot think of an author , Mark for example , sending out his Gospel lacking the ending , while one whole side of his roll was unused . The codex form was not so accommodating . Even in the case of the single-sheet quire , an extra sheet glued on might have to be gummed on over the binding , or the whole codex rebound . Close to the building projects would be the VINEYARDS ( 1 Kings 4.25 ; S. of Sol. 8.11 ) . The word is a Persian loan-word , pairi-deaza , from which our word paradise is derived . Qoheleth has a second paradise at his disposal but he is no happier than Adam was ! The word is used in the singular in Neh. 2.8 and S. of Sol. 4.13 . A natural transition from gardens and orchards to the vital question of water supply . The pools are probably natural springs enlarged to become reservoirs or cisterns in the rock . King Mesha of Moab boasts of their construction in lines 9 , 23-25 of the Moabite Stone , which read : And I built Baal-meon and made in it the reservoir ... and I made both the reservoirs for water inside the town . According to the legend , Solomon had asked the Prince of the Demons , " Ashmodeus " to bring him the Shamir and Ashmodeus told him that the Shamir had not been placed under his charge , as there is no Shamir in Gehenna ( Hell ) . An eagle brought the Shamir to Solomon from Eden , the Paradise , the only place where the Shamir could be found . The Talmud describes that the Shamir lives in a sanctuary , and only some rare birds know the existence of it . These birds are , the Cherubim and the Seraphim . We are also told that the Shamir is the stylus used by Moses , and this stylus is described as a very precious diamond-stone and very adamant . The word Shamir was used as a personal name ( Git. 68a ) . The Hebrew word " SHAMIR " means guarded or preser- ved . Therefore , the real man , who regards himself as insignificant , as the prayer says : " What am I ? A worm " , he is the Shamir and such a man fulfils the Shmah , loves the Lord God with all his heart , and with all his soul and with all his might and studies the word of God . This man is the worm , the creature that cuts and polishes Altar-Stones . Such a man is the Shamir that guards him- self against all the irrelevant pleasures . Such a Shamir possesses the real acid to mould our character , to melt our heart of stone . This Shamir helps us earthly creatures to build an Altar for God to come nearer to God . The action of the Shamir writes books and their books are readable . This Shamir is indeed a rare diamond that incises the hardest rock , the hardest facts . And these creatures existed from the beginning . It is " the stone , which the builders refused , but it is to become the head-stone of the corner " . ( Ps. 118 , 22 . ) And the stone shall tell ! " For the stone shall cry out of the wall " , like Baalam's ass , " and the purlin of timber shall creak in answer " " if the roof of our security is crushing our soul " ( see Hab. 2 , 10-11 ) . And it is through the Shamir : " That the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the Glory of the Lord , as the waters cover the sea . " ( Hab. 2 , 14 . ) The Shamir's daily life writes the Decalogue , which is written on two plates , the hard facts of life , and all facts are " one " . We have all come across human Shamirs and they leave a deep impression on our feelings and senses . They make us the Altar for God to emit the Light which can be read in every language . The Shamir is the " seventh " and most important creature , that was created on the eve of the Sabbath , to bring the Sabbath , real peace to the whole world . Then the whole earth will be His Altar . " And it shall come to pass , if 1ye shall 1hearken diligently unto my commandments , which I command you this day , to love the Lord your God , and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul . " This may seem very good , but there is something deficient . Under such conditions without putting your mind together we cannot solve the further summons of destiny , to solve the economic problems . Hence says Rabbi Simeon ben Jochai ( Tanis 6a ) " if Israel does not fulfil the wish of the Lord , failing to serve the Lord God with all their visionary power , the work will have to be done by each individual " . They will not work in union . If physical power , spiritual power and visionary power is not united , man will remain in his heart selfish and think only of one's personal advantage to gratify selfish aims , then each man will gather-in for himself only , instead of all to help to gather your corn , your wine and your oil . Freedom from want cannot be fulfilled nor freedom from fear , fear of starvation in the midst of plenty . Help will not be easily forth- coming for the people in need . They will think of the animals first ( which is of course our duty ) . Of course the individual will eat and be full but : " Take heed to yourself , that your heart be not deceived , and 1ye turn aside , and serve other gods , and worship them " , the yourself is thy greatest enemy , the self- seeking self . And you serve Mammon and God . And you cannot serve two masters , and you worship self-interest , isolating yourself , under such conditions the goods are your gods . " And then the Lord's wrath be kindled against you , and he shut up the heavens , that there is no rain , and that the land yield not her fruit and lest 1ye perish quickly from off the good land which the Lord 1giveth you . " For without the vision to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might the problem of life cannot be solved . " Therefore shall 1ye lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul . " The text adds and in your soul , searching your soul . And the sequence in the text is different than in the first part of the Shmah , we have first " and to bind them for a sign upon your hand , that they may be as frontlets between your eyes . " First to bind them to have the vision and then " And 1ye shall teach them to your children . " And as we have go- ne through the mill , we need not teach them to the children any more diligently and the children will grasp now what will befall them without visionary power . And we will nail the Divine Law on the door posts of the house and upon the gates . " That your days may be multiplied and the days of your children in the land , which the Lord swear unto your father to give them , as days of HEAVEN ON EARTH " That means the Kingdom of Messianic Righteousness ( Talmud Sanh. 99A ) . The Messusah , which is nailed on the doorposts contains those two lessons . The third lesson of the Shmah ( Numbers 15 , 37-41 ) is called " the going-out of the land of Egypt " . It starts with the story of the fringes the " tsitsits " . This lesson used to be read only in the morning . And the Talmud tells a story , which is also in the Hagadah that Rabbi Eleasar ben Assarja said , " I am nearly seventy and I had not succeeded that Ben Zoma said : " The days of 1thy life means in the day-time ; all the days of 1thy life means even at night-time . " ( Berochoth . ) And the Rabbis thought it important that when we read the Shmah " to be willing to hear , " we should remember the Great Deliverance : Passover and its connection with the fringes ( the tsitsits ) . And the tsitsits had a message sealed inside the knots just as there is a message sealed in the four emblems which are used on Passover , to depict the " time of our freedom " . And they are ( 1 ) Matzo ; ( 2 ) Bitter Herbs ; ( 3 ) Salt-water and Charauses ( a kind of fruit mixture in likeness of the appearance of mortar ) ; and ( 4 ) an attitude to lean back . ( 1 ) Matzos is deficient bread , ( LECHEM ANJO in Hebrew ) , so are we deficient without spiritual knowledge , and to cure our mental incapacity we should be willing to learn . Education is always the most important task . Education gives : Freedom of Speech . ( 2 ) Bitter Herbs symbolises the bitterness that is hurled against us . We eat it . We accept it , to show we have self-control and that God dwells within us . Self-control gives us : Freedom to worship God . ( 3 ) Salt Water and Charauses : the salt-water at the Seder-Table represents the Covenant of the Torah ( MELACH BRITH ELOHECHO in Hebrew , Salt is the covenant of 1thy God , Levit. 2 , 13 . ) Salt preserves and we should have this salt in ourselves and have peace with one-another . And the sweet Mortar ( the CHARAUSES in Hebrew ) that binds all the " hard- facts " together and explains them , represents the Oral Tradition . We dip into both , at the Seder . And we want to understand more of the Torah and the Oral Tradition , our inheritance . Living the life of the Torah ( " dipping-in " ) makes us meek : " But the meek shall inherit the earth ; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of Peace " ( Psalm 37 , 11 ) . That gives us freedom from want . ( 1 ) Matzo represents Peshat ; ( 2 ) Moraur represents Remez ; ( 3 ) Dipping-in represents Derush ; ( 4 ) Leaning-back represents Saud . ( This is the PARDUS . ) Matzo represents the literal meaning of Pesach which is called : The Feast of Matzos . The Bitter-Herbs represent the spiritual principle and this gives us " a wink " ( Remez ) how to live and accept all the bitterness that is hurled against us . The Salt-water and the sweet Mortar in which we dip-in represents the richness of the Law and that we should Leaning back carries the concealed message . And we start the Seder showing the Matzos , that they rep- resent the " Bread of Poverty " which our fore-fathers were eating in Mitzrajim , to show they were willing to learn ; and we invite anybody who wishes to partake in our discussions , saying : " Anybody who is hungry , let him come and eat , Anybody who is thirsty , let him come and drink . " And we want all to eat and drink His Great Philosophy of the four ways of Israel's redemption . Hence " four questions " , which are really interrogations to examine into the principles of the four re- demptions are asked at the Seder-evening about these " four symbols " ( the MANISHTANO ) . And the person who asks these questions is seeking the opinion of the one who is conducting the Seder . And we answer , that the Lord our God gave us " four freedoms " without which Society cannot make progress . And we drink " four cups " to thank the Lord our God for the " four freedoms " which are Divine . There are four ways of redemption : ( 1 ) I will bring you out from under the burdens of Egypt . ( 2 ) I will rid you of their bondage . ( 3 ) I will redeem you . ( 4 ) I will take you to me for a people . ( 1 ) I will bring you out from under the burdens of Egypt : How was it that Israel was brought out from under the burdens of Egypt ? Because , they kept the Passover and they were eating Matzos in Egypt and the " Feast of Matzos " was known even to Abraham and Lot . The new century opened with James 1 ascending the throne . He was quite prepared to be tolerant towards Rome though the Gunpowder Plot spoiled that . The Puritans had high hopes , for James had grown up in Presbyterian Scotland , but those hopes were dashed . True , a new Prayer Book was issued in 1604 but the Puritans derived little comfort from it . They objected to the word Absolution . So the phrase ' or the remission of sins ' was added . But Absolution remained . They objected to the word Confirmation . So the phrase ' or the laying on of hands upon children baptized and able to render an account of their faith according to the Catechism following ' were added . But Confirmation remained . Other changes in the Book were equally minor except for the new section on the Sacraments added to the Catechism . This indicated how ephemeral in the Church had been the mood which produced the Black Rubric , for it says that ' the Body and Blood of Christ , which are verily and indeed taken and received by the faithful in the Lord's Supper . ' It could hardly be more definite . It was at this time , too , that King James made himself immortal by becoming associated with a Bible translation - the Authorized Version ( which was never actually authorized ! ) . In that year Shakespeare had just turned forty and had written Hamlet two years before . Bacon was at work and Milton was just learning to read . James was followed by Charles , in whose reign came the Scottish Prayer Book in 1637 . Significantly this made a deliberate return to the Book of 1549 and became the foster mother of some of the most important Prayer Books in the Anglican Communion . Forever associated with Charles is Archbishop Laud , now so much nobler a figure than former historians led us to believe . Laud was enthusiastically hated by Calvinists and Puritans , and the sentiment was mutual . But Laud was no Romanizer . One of his first public acts was a hard-hitting battle with the Jesuit , Fisher . But anyone who was friendly with James and Charles , the Puritans argued , was necessarily a menace . Or when he found cock-fighting going on in church ? Laud made a positive approach . He set out to increase a sense of reverence . The Prayer Book was to be respected and so was the office of a bishop . Altars should be altars and not any broken down , transportable table which was handy for the most improbable uses . In the first place it is not a great deal of use telling even children , as I have already suggested , not to be silly or to pull themselves together . Far better to help them to face whatever it is that is worrying them , to find the original cause and then deal with it ; show it up either for the sham it is - and many fears are based upon completely irrational pre-conceived notions - or to Even worse is to laugh . Tremendous damage may be done to a child by laughing at what are very real fears . As adults , we know that their fears are groundless , indeed to us they appear laughable , but to a child they are very real . Not that I am suggesting that children should be molly-coddled - they must be made to face their fears , to see through them and come out on the other side as victors . To ridicule them only pushes them farther into themselves , so that they become unable to speak about it to anybody and the seeds of any amount of trouble are sown , the harvest of which may still be being reaped at forty or fifty . Far better to agree with a child that a particular situation is frightening , and then to face it together until the child can see how unnecessary its fears were . Because situations which may contain all the elements of fear can arise suddenly , it is a good idea to condition a child to some extent against it . To keep a child of twelve or thirteen under the impression that nothing nasty ever happens is not merely dishonest , it is unwise . As I shall suggest in a later chapter there are some situations which occur less frequently than A little more honesty , even if one refrains from going into too many details , would help many a child to make a proper adjustment to life as it grows up . Let us look at Jesus . We do not , I think , see there a life without fear . There are several instances where he seemed unable to go on . In Gethsemane He prayed that the cup should pass from Him . Jesus shows us the way to face life . To see all the latent frightening possibilities and yet by facing them and knowing God is with us and that , with Him , there is nothing that can finally defeat us . More than that , that God has something important to do with our lives and that the nearer we get to Him , the stronger we become . ... Today A wonderful thought In the dawn was given ... And the thought Was this : That a secret plan Is hid in my hand ; That my hand is big Big , Because of the plan That God , Who dwells in my hand , Knows this secret plan , Of the things He will do for the world Using my hand . Toyohiko Kagawa . Loving Saviour , who experienced all human emotion , and whose sensitive nature knows better than we do , what it is to be really afraid , help us to know that when we face life boldly , many of the shadows are seen to be allies and not enemies and that , come what may , we are never alone when we are with Thee . Amen . MOST people would probably regard tiredness as a purely physical thing . The cure for which is sleep . This is only partly true . Many people wake up tired of a morning and no amount of rest seems to make any difference . Sleep , to be effective , must be of that child-like quality which comes from innocence . To others , the long hours of the night bring only a disturbed tossing and turning which causes them to wake feeling worse than when they went to bed . We may begin to understand this a little better when we realize that tiredness itself is largely in the mind . Very few people , under normal conditions , work themselves to a standstill . The mind tires first and conveys the impression of tiredness to the body . This can be proved by noting the effect of a new stimulus on some- body who feels thoroughly tired . Suppose a mother has news late at night that her child is in danger . She will undertake a journey which , an hour before , she would have declared impossible . Even more simply , test your own reactions to different situations . There are some which bring on an almost immediate feeling of tiredness - such as when your wife mentions the washing-up - while others , if they refer to something you like doing , bring a veritable surge of energy . Many a girl who is ' too tired to help mum ' will later jump up with no apparent tiredness at all when her boy friend calls and go for a long walk . Nor is she necessarily being deceitful . She really did feel tired until the mind got the necessary injection of a fresh - and an attractive - interest ! Tiredness has , therefore , as much to do with our mental state as with our physical exhaustion . A disturbed mind can bring the healthiest body to a sense of fatigue . They wonder why they get no rest at night , even if they do sleep . They drag themselves around and can become a burden to their families and their friends . Any mental confusion can cause this and the best way is probably to seek advice . As we are unable to cure our own bodies if the cause of our pain is too deep seated , so we are unable to cure our own minds , if the trouble is a complicated one involving careful and patient treatment . One of the greatest steps forward that has been made this century is the way in which illness of the mind is no longer feared or shunned , and is in fact no differently regarded than physical illness . There is , nevertheless , a great deal of tiredness which comes from no major complication but results from an inability to deal with life , especially under the diverse pattern which is the twentieth century . In the days when most people were born , lived and died within the boundaries of the village , it was not difficult for anybody to live a day at a time . Even those who held a high and responsible office lived in far greater simplicity than their successors . When news from the Continent took days , from America weeks , from the Far East , months , even a Prime Minister could go to sleep in blissful ignorance of what might be happening at the other end of England , In other ways , too , life for the ordinary individual has become so complex that it taxes the mind . Two hundred years ago , men lived and worked in one place , their lives were of one piece . Now a man may live twenty , thirty even sixty miles from his work . The only connexion is the pipeline of the railway on which they travel day by day . In many cases , their homes know little of their place of work and their associates at the office or works wonder what they are possibly like in the surroundings of their homes . It is easy , desperately easy , to lead a ' double ' life without ever deliberately planning to do so or in fact being conscious of what is going on . It is easier to live life in compartments but over the years it builds up , and to do so inevitably builds up tensions which need to be handled correctly . Can we then frame some ' rules ' which may enable us to live life as fully as possible , without having our energy sapped by un- necessary weariness . ( a ) Order makes for a decrease in tiredness . We have a saying ' My head will never save my feet ' . Time after time we forget something and have to go back upstairs or down to the shops . If we ever stopped to consider how much energy - and time - we lose this way in the course of a day we would be staggered . Some of it is inevitable , and we do not want to become too pernickety . Nevertheless , we could all probably be a little more orderly for we so frequently just muddle through . The housewife would find life far less tiring if she made a list , followed a routine of work rather than getting from one thing to the next . The business man would find that he reached the end of the day with far less strain if he was a little more systematic . To drift aimlessly along is more wearying than any- thing else . If we would only sit down and write out all the necessary jobs waiting to be done and then work quietly through them , we would find life considerably less exhausting There may be some who will argue that routine destroys the soul . It is so easy , they say , to get into a rut . Save us from the school curriculum and even worse the school system whereby for meals everybody knows beforehand exactly what , on any given day of the week , they are going to have . If - such a critic may say - you are calling us to adventure , do not strangle us before we start by putting us into a strait-jacket I am more than conscious of this . How anybody can go through the same routine day in and day out for forty years I find difficult to understand . A lot of it is inevitable so that industry and commerce may be kept going - though if ever it becomes possible to work out a system of ' staggered ' hours it may do an immense amount of good over and above relieving the pressure on over-crowded trains . As it is , with so much of our life already in a predetermined groove , I would hardly like to add further to the dullness which it engenders . But I am not arguing for this . I know how much of a drag it can be and I was interested some little while ago to hear of a school who tried a six- day timetable . They only worked , of course , a five- day week so that in the first week Monday to Friday were days one to five of the timetable , the following Monday was day six and Tuesday started day one again and so on . By this means they avoided each week being the same with a pupil knowing exactly what the subject would be on Friday afternoon at 3 p.m. . It was a little complicated to work , of course , and there had to be a big notice in the entrance saying which day of the timetable it was - but it added immensely to the interest and kept everybody on their toes . To have order does not mean getting into a dull routine . I have great sympathy with the young wife who does not always want to do the washing on a Monday . I would not want to either , but if she wants to get through the day without becoming exhausted , she will be well advised to sit down quietly and make a list of everything she has got to do , note the order in which they can most conveniently be done ( or must be done because of other predetermined factors - you must , for example , do your shopping on the morning of the early closing day ) . She will , in fact , be surprised at what peace of mind ensues . ( b ) Concentrate on one thing at a time . A list or a plan enables us to put all our energies into the particular matter on hand . ( Actually , the Mishnah quotes two further proof texts and the Gemara explains why these , too , are necessary , but a careful examination of that passage makes it clear that these are not quoted here because they are not necessary to prove the point made by R. Joshua b. Levi . ) Finally , we note that the comment of Rami bar Rabh is quoted elsewhere . From the above it follows that here , once again , we have a good illustration of how a sugya has been fashioned from material already in the hands of the Redactors . The sugya is built around the saying of R. Joshua b. Levi . The proof text for the reading of the Book of Esther is quoted with the comment given by Samuel . ( This is probably to be understood as a well- known comment on the verse ; quoted by Samuel in support of his thesis and quoted by the Gemara in support of R. Joshua b. Levi's thesis ! ) The proof text of greeting by the divine Name is taken from the Mishnah . There is no reference to the Mishnah here because the Mishnah deals with the actual practice of greeting by the divine Name and the Gemara here quotes the texts to support the thesis of R. Joshua b. Levi . The question and answer with regard to the need for the text of the angel are quoted here in the same words in which they are quoted in the discussion on the Mishnah . This can either mean that both sugyas are quoting a well-known question and answer or that our sugya is quoting from the longer sugya which deals with all four texts quoted in the Mishnah . Or it is possible that our sugya contains the original question and answer and this is quoted in the other sugya . ( This can be supported by the use of the expression : ' Boaz did it of his own accord but there was no approval of his action in Heaven ' in both sugyoth . Such an expression appears to have been framed in response to the particular point at issue here , whether the Heavenly Court concurred in the decision of the human court . ) The proof text of bringing the tithe to the Temple is then quoted and the interpretation of the latter part of the verse by Rami bar Rabh is added , not because this is at all relevant to the discussion but because it was a familiar interpretation which had become so well known that it was invariably quoted whenever the verse itself was quoted , almost as if it were a part of the verse . The Gemara continues with a saying of the Palestinian teacher , R. Eleazar ( 3rd Cent. ) : ' The Holy Spirit manifested itself in three places : the court of Shem , the court of Samuel of Ramah , and the court of Solomon . ' The place of this saying here is obvious , it follows naturally on the saying of R. Joshua b. Levi which deals with a similar theme . We know from the diaries of Samuel Pepys that he was a great man for lace - paying as much as 3 for a lace collar . But this didn't mean he was prepared to do as much for his lady , for he records testily : ' My wife and I fell out about my not being willing to have her gown laced . ' We read , with sympathy , an advertisement in the reign of Charles 2 stating : ' Lost : a lawn 1hand- kercher with a broad hem laced round with fine Point lace about four fingers broad ' and among the effects left by Nell Gwyn is an unpaid bill for ' scarlet satin shoes with silver lace ' . The records of these tender trifles are very touching but then lace does place upon everything a delicate sentiment . Lucky indeed are the families that possess a heritage of lace . A lace bridal veil handed down from mother to daughters , a lace-trimmed Christening robe that each generation wears in turn - these are proud possessions , linked to the exquisite lace-making of the past . But lace-making is by no means a lost art . It suffered a decline and fell into lamentably low standards in the fussy over-furnishing of the Victorian age but it would take more than a temporary lapse in good taste to destroy this lovely , viable craft . It has , in fact , readily adapted itself to modern tastes and the ill- ustrations in the following pages will show how completely it is in sympathy with con- temporary surroundings . It will be seen how , with bold design and rich colour , knitting , crochet and tatting in fine and medium-weight cottons can give striking individuality to many things in the home . Chairbacks , cushions , tablecloths , to mention only three - how satisfying it is to avoid the ready-made in these and by one's own handiwork produce something that reflects true creative talent . The more delicate patterns and finer threads may be reserved to bring a light and lovely touch to personal possessions - a lace border to a handkerchief , fine-lace insertion on a petticoat or blouse , a tatted edge to a collar ; these add a charming , feminine distinction that nothing else can give . Although we assess lace-making as one of the feminine skills , a number of the well-loved traditional patterns that we follow today were , in fact , the brain-children of inventive men . For in the old order of things , men designed and worked lace as well as women and special schools were set up to teach lace- making not only to young girls , but to little boys as well . Whole families made their livelihood by lace-making and consequently a folklore of song , festival and courtship grew up around the lace industry . During the sixteenth century a considerable amount of crochet was produced in the convents of Europe . Without doubt it was the nuns who carried the craft to Ireland . There it was developed into quite an elaborate and distinctive form with rosettes , leaves and lace fillings . During the time of Victoria this gentle craft was greatly abused . One can remember with horror the pictures of the overcrowded and over-embellished drawing-rooms complete with heavy crochet antimacassars , mantel- piece covers with a fringing of clumsy bobbles and numerous other crocheted pieces . It was some years after the Victorian period that designers realised the potentialities of the craft , and crochet was revived with designs suitable for contemporary trends . Crochet today has a variety of uses , and has even stepped into the field of high fashion . In some of the elegant boutiques of Paris hand-crocheted blouses , gossamer fine in texture , are sold at a very high price . With a little time and concentration the woman at home can produce fashion articles as elegant as those of Paris - a blouse , delicate gloves or a fine edging for collar , cuffs or a handkerchief . In the home , crochet lace can be used to make tablecloths , traycloths and runners , and edgings from heavy to fine can fulfil a variety of functions . The art of crochet is not difficult and it is reasonably quick to work . In the following pages simple diagrams and instructions are given to enable the beginner to master all the essential crochet stitches . First launder crochet and then pin to the required shape , ensuring that all lines of the crochet are accurate . Place crochet in correct position on linen and secure with pins . Run a line of basting stitches on the linen following the outline of the crochet edges which are to be attached to the linen . Remove crochet . Two methods can be used to join the crochet to the linen : ( a ) Button Stitch round the outline of basting stitches , the knotted part of the button stitch lying on the outside edge . Oversew crochet to button stitch . ( b ) Turn under a small hem , with fold lying on line of basting stitches . Work a row of dc all round this hem , with 3 dc at each corner . Oversew crochet to the dc. A household word , Coats Mercer-Crochet possesses qualities which are of the utmost importance to the worker . It washes beautifully , never loses its colour nor becomes ' stringy ' , is very elastic and preserves the beauty of the design . It is easy to work with , soft , glossy and of uniform thickness - it is the ideal crochet thread . Remember that texture plays an important part in the beauty of crochet . The finer mercerised threads are more effective for the delicate designs used for tablecloths , doilies , edgings and accessories , while the heavier threads are used for bedspreads , chairbacks , luncheon mats , etc. Crochet hooks are made of steel , composition or bone . Steel crochet hooks range in size from number 3/0 , the largest , to number 8 , the smallest . Each size of hook is made for use with a certain size of thread . To ensure the correct results , it is important that you use the size of hook specified in the directions . These are the correct numbers to use with Mercer-Crochet : Directions are given for a small practice piece for each stitch that you learn . When you have become proficient in these stitches , attractive articles can be made from the directions included in this book . 1 . Grasp thread near end between thumb and forefinger . 2 . Make a loop by lapping long thread over short thread . 3 . Hold loop in place between thumb and forefinger ( Fig. 1 ) . 1 . Take hold of broad bar of hook as you would a pencil . Bring middle finger forward to rest near tip of hook . 2 . Insert hook through loop and under long thread . Catch long end of thread ( Fig. 2 ) . Draw loop through . 3 . Do not remove hook from thread . Pull short end and ball thread in opposite directions to bring loop close around the end of the hook , but not too tight ( Fig. 3 ) . Loop thread round little finger , across palm and behind forefinger ( Fig. 4 ) . A great deal of modern furniture has tapered legs , and in reproduction period pieces they are frequently used . The simpler varieties are extremely easy to work , the four sides being simply planed to give the required taper . In the more elaborate varieties , however , a toe is worked in the solid , and this certainly complicates the operation . For short ones a smoothing plane can be used . The gauge can now be used to nick in the tapers on the newly planed surfaces , and these treated as before . It is unnecessary to mark the taper with the straight-edge as one relies upon the truth of the plane sole to make the tapered surfaces straight . A glance at the gauge marks at the bottom end reveals when the required amount has been removed , and if care is taken to stop the plane short of the squared pencil line at the top , the work will be accurate . The straight-edge can be used to test the straightness of the sides . Incidentally , it is better to complete any mortising that may be needed at the top before the tapering is begun . Some plain tapered legs have the taper on the two inner faces only , the outer surfaces being vertical as at ( B ) , Fig. 1 . To make a leg such as that at ( D ) , Fig. 1 , the square is first marked out as at ( A ) , Fig. 3 . Note that squared lines marking the top member of the toe are needed as well as the upper ex- tent of the taper , and in this case it is necessary to mark in the line of the taper with pencil and straight-edge as at ( B ) , Fig. 3 . A saw cut is made at the upper toe line exactly down to the taper line , no farther . But why woodwork in particular ? Well , there are many reasons . Wood is in good and common supply ; it lends itself to making innumerable useful household items - furniture , fitments , garden items , toys , etc. ; it enables results to be obtained fairly quickly ; it is less expensive than most other materials ; it is a pleasant material to work with ; and , although it does create a certain amount of mess , it is all clean and easily cleared away . This last point is certainly important because almost everyone has come to recognise that machines are not only an economic necessity , but that a great deal of drudgery can be avoided by the installation of a power tool . As an elementary example , surely no one can pretend to enjoy ripping out parts from hardwood . Most men would unhesitatingly use a machine if it were available . Coming now to the actual tools and their cost , we begin with what we have called a bare minimum kit . Probably most men have some of the tools already . It will enable a man to make simple , straight-forward things , and in any case may be regarded as a good beginning to which other tools can be added as the need arises . The nature of the work will probably dictate the additions to be made , but as a guide we have given a fuller kit which increases the range of things that can be made enormously . As a still further development , we follow with a good basic kit , which includes the fuller kit ( which in its turn , of course , includes the bare minimum kit ) . With this the vast majority of jobs can be done , though for advanced cabinet work the necessity for certain special tools will become obvious . Lastly , we suggest certain power tools and machines , the choice of which will depend partly upon the space available in the workshop , the amount one is prepared to pay , and the type of work a man normally does . First , however , a word of advice generally . Do not buy so-called cheap tools or machines . They never are cheap in the long run . They may be inaccurate , Most tools have to lead an intensive life , and faults in design or quality soon become apparent . It is far better to pay the fair price for a tool of good quality , and not handicap yourself from the start . To put it in a slightly different way , do not allow yourself to blame the tools when the job does not turn out quite right ! Many men with only limited accommodation have to do their woodwork on the kitchen table . Providing this is sound , some perfectly good work can be done on it , but the usual problems are those of the vice , the bench stop , and storage place for tools . The combined bench top and tool cupboard shown here has been specially designed and made for WOODWORKER readers who have this difficulty . HERE is a project that will be welcomed by the family man or father-to-be . Unlike many commercial articles , this chair is solidly built and capable of withstanding the heavy handling of the most destructive youngster . Almost any available timber can be used but Parana pine is recommended , being cheap , easy to work , and taking a good finish . Start by making the two side frames from 1 in. by 1 1/4 in. planed timber as shown in Fig. 1 . Although the timber will have already been machine planed , remember to go over each piece with a smoothing plane , otherwise the marks left by the cutters will show up after painting . The dimensions given enable the feeding tray to slide over a 30 in. table , but the height can be altered if required . All the joints are simple halving joints glued and pinned , which should nevertheless be cut with care to ensure a neat appearance . The side frames are joined by four cross pieces each 1 1/4 in. by 1/2 in. by 14 in. which fit into the recesses ( C ) , cut to fit them . See Fig. 2 . These are then glued and pinned into place . A similar piece of 1 in. by 1 1/4 in. by 14 in. timber is fixed across the end of the feeding tray as seen in Fig. 3 which also shows how a piece of hardboard is covered with plastic material for easy cleaning and then fixed underneath the frame with panel pins to complete the feeding tray . Cut this piece of hardboard so that it fits up against the front legs of the chair . The seat rests across the upper two cross pieces and is made of 1/2 in. plywood glued and panel pinned in position , measurements being taken directly from the work . Fig. 4 shows the framework for the back which is made from 1 1/4 in. by 1/2 in. timber . The amount of the backward tilt and also the height is left to personal choice and the width is best taken directly from the work to ensure a good fit . Fix the piece A to the sides first with glue and panel pins and then fit the frame together with the piece B temporarily in place on the chair frame . Decide on the required angle of slope , keeping B flat on the chair seat , and mark off the exact position of B on the side pieces . These can then be cut at the correct angle and B is glued and nailed in place . A piece of hardboard is then cut and pinned to the frame and its edges planed off flush . Finally attach the back firmly to the sides with screws driven from the inside . The footrest is a piece of timber 14 in. long and about 1/2 in. by 4 in. attached to the front legs with a pair of angle irons as shown in Fig. 5 . When determining the position of the footrest , do not place too near the seat to allow for the growth of baby's legs . To complete the job , screw two fittings to the inside of the chair arms about 2 1/2 in. from the back to hold the baby's safety harness . These can be made by shaping and soldering two pieces of stout wire as shown in Fig. 6 . Make sure that these are well secured as they will have to withstand considerable pulling as the child becomes older . Punch in all nail and panel pin heads and fill the holes with plastic wood . Then thoroughly glasspaper the whole framework and round off any sharp edges ( such as the edge of the seat , feeding tray , etc ) . Fill the grain with a woodfiller in the usual way and paint the frame in a suitable pastel shade , using a contrasting colour for the seat and the back which can be decorated with a suitable nursery transfer . Avoid using lead-based paint as this could prove poisonous if junior decides to bite the chair . Finally , it is as well to cover the footrest with rubber or any such protective material that might be available as otherwise the paint would soon be scratched off . ( J.H.P. ) BUILDING your own boat is a most satisfying and worthwhile project . Here are the plans of a very seaworthy little rowing dinghy many of which I have built and sold . It is especially designed for simplicity in construction , cheapness and lightness of weight , and measures approximately 8 ft. by 4 ft. She weighs only 60 lb. but can carry three people and an outboard motor with a comfortable margin of freeboard . For instance , in Canada we use galvanised nails in place of screws . We just bend them over and clamp firmly by using a hammer on each side . Over here I 've always used brass screws , which are more expensive . The first job is to make your moulds . In Fig. 1 it quotes 3/4 in. five-ply , but to save money any scrap may be used , and if this is nailed and glued together strongly , it may be marked and cut to shape later . If you do not have a wooden floor on which to anchor the moulds , make a frame of rough lumber as shown in Fig. 2 . The main idea is to have the moulds standing as rigid as possible , for it is on these you will be building and shaping your little craft , upside-down . For cheapness I recommend using Douglas Fir Plywood from British Columbia . This is hot pressed and resin bonded to ensure a permanently water proof glue line . Be sure to see that the edge bears the mark , P.M.B.C. Exterior . This may be bought at any good timber merchants . The transoms can be made of any sound five-ply wood of the same make , or oak or mahogany . For the last one I made , I used the two flaps from an old mahogany table which I bought at a sale for one shilling . I have also included a sketch of paddles I make for rowing this dinghy ( Fig. 3 ) . They are very simple , cheap and easy to make . As will be seen from the plan there is only a single gunwale on the outside . I find that the type of rowlock we use in Canada is difficult to obtain here and expensive . I overcome this in another way as shown in Fig. 4 . Cut the moulds and the transoms to shape as in the detailed drawings . If you have a wooden floor you can use ' A ' frames fastened to the floor if not , use a strong horizontal frame that will sit firmly on the ground or concrete floor . I use a heavy old base as in Fig. 2 . The edges of the transoms should be bevelled to correspond to the sides and bottom of the boat . Don't forget to cut out on each side of each mould to allow for the chines to rest in these notches , as they are not fastened to the moulds , which will only be used whilst the hull is under construction . The chine is the long stringer on each side which is joined to both transoms and lies in the grooves cut in the moulds . Each chine is made of oak , ash , spruce or any long grained flexible wood . I prefer spruce when available . As will be seen in the plan , the transoms have a frame 1 in. by 1 in. on each side . The chines are morticed into this and butt up against the transom . Start at the bow and spring them both at the same time over the slots cut in the moulds and into the notches cut for this purpose in the stern or after transom framing . Glue , screw and make fast . The skeleton of the boat will now take shape , and this is the time to check before making fast to see that nothing is distorted . Ensure that the outside measurements from transom to transom are equal on each side and that the transoms are parallel horizontally . Next bevel the chines with a plane so that the bottom will fit snugly . Cut out the bottom and sides accurately from the plan measurements but leave sufficient margin for planing after fixing to the boat . Use your two lengths of 8 ft. by 4 ft. ply for this purpose , the sides from one , and the bottom from the other . If care is taken not to waste the ply , plenty of material is left over for the thwarts . Having trimmed up the chines , we are now ready to plank the sides . Start again at the bows , clamping into position with a ' D ' clamp . Bend round the frame to the stern and clamp there . If you have a third clamp use it in the centre as well . After generously covering with glue , screw the sides to the transom framing and the chine . Use 5/8 by No. 4 gauge screws ( brass ) or nail with inch and a quarter galvanized nails , if you are doing it that way . Use flat head screws about 4 in. apart and do not counter-sink in the 1/4 in. ply . Make a very small hole for the screw to allow for a good grip . Remember to glue before screwing . Clean up with the plane ready for the bottom , which is cut in one piece . It should overlap just a trifle ; this can be cleaned up later . As you are screwing and gluing this piece to the chines it is necessary to be careful not to miss the chine with the screws . I prefer spacing screws 3 in. apart for the bottom , both for screwing to the chines and the bottom shaped transom facing . Again , don't forget to glue . Now put on the keel and the rubbing strakes and you are ready to lift the boat off the moulds . You won't want them again for this boat , so shift them right out of the way . Place the boat right side up on two boxes or trestles of convenient height for working . Fix on the gunwales and insert the thwarts ( seats ) taking care to reinforce the sides of the dinghy at the seats with vertical members as shown in the plans . Make the four blocks for the rowlocks and mark their positions before riveting on the gunwales so that you do not put a rivet where you will have to cut out the inside ( gunwale ) one to fit the block . I rivet my gunwales together through the side of the hull with copper nails and roves . It greatly improves the appearance and the strength . Paint with good marine primer , undercoat and at least one coat of finishing paint . WHEN an assortment of differently coloured materials are cut into a variety of shapes they can be combined by either making fabric pictures or designs . While these may ultimately be made into a picture for framing and hanging on a wall , they may also be arranged into a design , and the resulting panel utilized for decorating a useful article . This could hardly happen without the herring having some orientation with the sea bottom . It means that the crowding is caused during the daytime , and that the herring must continue to migrate over the ground as well as in midwater and during the swim ( the swim at East Anglia is always from the north ) . Thus we can see that herring movements , although primarily instinctive perhaps , and certainly helped and hindered by water flow , are also closely related to the sea-bed geography . Geography , too , names the great fisheries that depend on them : the Fladen Ground ( where again most big shots are taken on the edges ) , the Gut , a deep-water channel to the Dogger where the herring spawn along the northern The effect of bottom congestion due to the light pressure is inevitably mixed with that of the suitability of ground for spawning . Both result in crowding , so there is no need to try to separate them - thank Heaven ! A good picture of this is seen on the 150 miles of spawning grounds from the Viking in the north down to the Klondykes and the Reef along the western edge of the Norwegian Deep . In this 200-fathom trench the herring do not touch the bottom . Their descent stops at the end of the light pressure . But they migrate easterly to the Norwegian side , or westerly , until in the shallower water the mile wide layers disappear from the echo-sounders . Bottom crowding comes when they cannot reach their optimum depth ; and this coincides with the suitable gravelly soil of these many roughs where the spring- spawning herring are always found . The joint evidence of echo-sounders and fishing gear leads to an overall though somewhat dim picture . The details are harder still to see . Drift Effects . At East Anglia , for instance , shoals that gather at the Knoll or other banks are most of them going to travel a hundred miles farther south before they spawn . Some will spawn at the So the arrival of any particular shoal fish at a certain spawning ground may be accidental . Yet there will always be some that find it if enough are travelling , just as the robin who gets back exactly may be only one among thousands who do not . But this southerly migration is not accidental . Being contranatant or against the drift , it probably has a survival value in ensuring that the fry after hatching are drifted back into the normal home Drift in another form probably explains how these migrating herring are biased to east or west by the different winds . Strong westerlies are well known to bring good longshore fishings . The surface water that is blown offshore must be replaced by an underflow bringing with it the herring to the Norfolk and Suffolk beaches . Easterly winds , on the other hand , mean no herring along the shore , as recent years have shown . A succession of winds is needed for this effect of course - one breeze will not do it , though a very hard westerly will often start off the " local " herring ; but quite apart from this wind effect there is an easterly drift special to this rump of coastline , caused by the meeting of water from north and south . Herring fishermen call this " the outset " . It is strongest at spring tides , when without wind you will " set " out - or drift to the east- ward , the length of half a fleet of nets - almost a mile on every tide at the Smith's Knoll . Without an explanation of how it works , it may well be that this outset , akin to the mouth of a great salmon river , has been the biggest factor through the ages in the constancy of this great herring fishery . The East Anglian behaviour ( see p. 82 ) has always differed from that of the summer fisheries . There is the " swim " at slack waters , even in daylight sometimes ; and the high swimming , when fish are caught only in the top few yards of netting . These and other fascinating behaviour mysteries are peculiar to this fishery , which unfortunately seems to be dying out ; but a full discussion of them is beyond the present scope . The Bow-wave Theory . This assumes that all fishing gear , when moving , sends before it a kind of scaring effect , probably through waves or vibrations in the water or along the ground . Underwater films suggest that the footrope of a trawl does this . Films have also shown plaice moving before a seine net in just the same way after being gathered inwards by the ropes . ( Just how the seine ropes do this is not yet proved ; it may be by actual contact , or by sight reaction to the disturbed sand ; or even in the case of flat fish , by vibrations through or along the bottom . ) But given such a bow wave of disturbance , it is obvious that without something to overcome its effect , very few fish would be caught . Let us consider first what would appear to be the simplest case - that of flat fish on the bottom . The evidence suggest that the fish are aware of the moving footrope before it reaches them . They move away before it , swimming at the same speed for an unknown period of time , until they become ( 1 ) tired , or ( 2 ) more used to the disturbance . Then they stop swimming and are caught . In the seine-net film this usually seemed to happen just after the fish had risen above the footrope , and presumably out of its field of disturbance , or bow wave . This suggests that the wave might be transmitted by the sea-bed , though the footrope in this case was actually just off the bottom and was indeed passing over some fish . Actually the seine net has little or no cover . And in this film the rise of the fish was small , a matter of a foot or two . With round fish like haddock , which would hardly find safety on the bottom , this cover would seem to be even more essential ; but more films are needed to prove this . Cover in the fast-moving trawl is considered essential to catch round fish whose reaction to disturbance would be upwards . WE have not yet reached the stage in Britain when 50 planes are engaged in spreading 1,500 tons of DDT and fuel oil over 3 million acres or when 20 million acres are sprayed with dieldrin . An eye- witness described one sprayed area as literally rank with the stench of small game and birds dead from insecti- cide poisoning . Wholesale chemical spraying , upsetting as it does the balance of nature by killing both pests and predators , is viewed with concern by a number of American State Research Stations . Not content with issuing bulletins on the dangers of the misuse of chemicals in agriculture , some stations are carrying out useful research on pest control by biological means . Both native and imported predatory insects and insect pathogens are used in field trial tests . The biological control of pests in the garden is not new to the American gardener . Lady- birds figure in press advertisements , their sale being by the gallon . Praying mantis ( Mantis religiosa ) , both native and " immigrant " varieties , are used by gardeners in all parts of the United States . Advertisements offer eggs of European , Chinese or native forms of mantis . From the day it hatches in the spring until it dies in the late autumn , the praying mantis satisfies its voracity by eating other insects . Nine blowflies may be consumed at one sitting and the fully adult , 2 1/2-in.-long insect , is able to keep a firm hold on one grasshopper while eating another . According to Dr. Max Beier in " Fang- heuschrecken " ( Die Neue Brehm Bu"ckerei , 1952 ) , the praying mantis is trecking northwards . Meanwhile Mr. Moncrieff had sent me an egg-case of the Chinese mantis . The first mantis had hatched from the very large egg-case on June 6 . Both the Chinese and Spanish mantis , in the young stage at any rate , are light brown in colour . Because of the cool , wet weather , I had great difficulty in breeding fruit flies and , after many of the mantis of both types had died in my Kilner jars , I poured living mantis over vines and peachtrees . A Gardeners Chronicle reader living in Grantham , Lincs , kindly offered to cooperate with me in studying praying mantis as a pest control in the cold greenhouse . Of the dozen Spanish mantis sent him by post on June 22 , only two or three survived the journey ; one thrived and the latest report I have is that this mantis is still alive . DESPITE the steady influx of substitutes since the end of the war , clay pots are still in greatest demand . It is mostly in the smaller sizes that the substitutes have made headway , and although numerous small clay pots are used each year , they are fewer than they were 10 years ago . In the larger sizes there is still no real substitute for clay that can be obtained at a comparable price , except the bituminized paper pots which are used on commercial nurseries for growing tomatoes The main disadvantage of the clay pot is its brittle nature ; even with reasonably careful handling , the annual losses are often around 10 per cent. , and where the handling and storage facilities are not too good , these losses will be even greater . This does not necessarily apply to the larger sizes , as they are not quite so fragile as the smaller ones and are not normally thrown about in quite the same way . The storage problem puts clay pots at a definite disadvantage . They are fairly heavy and difficult things to accommodate and they must have some protection from severe weather , which can be quite a headache in a small garden . While admitting that broken pots have on occasions provided artists with delightful studies , there is no doubt that a pile of badly stacked , half-broken pots is an unlovely sight from any point of view . Every garden boy will agree that having to wash clay pots is a definite factor in favour of their abolition ; in fact one young man was so wholehearted about this a few years ago that he made the headlines for having smashed a large number # to relieve his feelings . On the small-to-medium establishment , it is a disagreeable chore which nobody tackles with any enthusiasm , whereas on larger establishments the pots can be sterilized or washed by machine . It is not easy to make an economic comparison between clay pots and the various substitutes ; the former may last indefinitely with luck , while the latter are often expendable used only once . Clay pots are efficient and congenial containers in which to grow plants . In their proper setting they are not unattractive and , in spite of their shortcomings , most gardeners have a nostalgic affection for them . Present-day pots are better finished , do not get dirty so readily and are easier to wash . The deep rims make for neater and safer stacking , though they are still expensive and still get broken . On the other hand , there is really no replacement for the larger sizes , so they have the decided advantage of being the only suitable container available in quantity for fairly large plants . Soil blocks are probably the oldest alternative to clay pots for plant raising . These are compressed blocks of compost , made in a specially devised press to simulate roughly the shape and size of a pot . Usually cylindrical or hexagonal in shape , they are made of the same compost as would have been used in a pot , the # only difference being that it is used in a slightly moister condition . Seed is sown , or seedlings are pricked out into them in the normal way , the only real difference being that more of the watering is done through a rose to avoid breaking the blocks with a spout of water . First-class plants of tomatoes , cucumbers , marrows , melons , cauliflowers , celery and onions , may all be raised in soil blocks ; so can such flowering plants as dahlias , chrysanthemums , salvias , sweet peas , lupins and numerous others . One big advantage of soil blocks is an obvious one : the cost of a pot of any description is saved completely . Manufacturing the block and planting it is very little more trouble than normal potting , and a superior plant , which transplants more easily , is produced . The obvious limitation # is that soil blocks can only be used for propagating ; there can be no progression to a larger block when the plant or seedling is ready to be moved ; it must be planted out or potted . Many amateur gardeners might improve their results by buying a small hand-operated soil block maker and use the money saved on buying small pots to improve their composts . The various types of small paper pots are very useful for short-term operations , but are inclined to collapse if the plants are in them too long . They are # quite useful for plants that are despatched to market or direct to customers , their cheapness making them attractive to the nurseryman ; there is also considerable saving in carriage costs because of their lightness . There are many types of plastic pots available ; some expensive , some quite cheap ; some good and others not so good . A wide range of plants grow quite well in plastic pots and usually need less water than those in clay pots . They are slightly more difficult to manage , however , until a little experience has been gained with them . Plastic pots are usually more expensive than clay ones , but they are almost indestructible and will last a long time with normal care . The job of the teacher is to set the learner's vocabulary to work on the existing store so as to make it grow . He does not simply pack new things into the store . The solitary learner has to find out how to do this for himself , with the help of books . He uses his vocabulary to ask questions and uses the books to find the answers . Thus learning how to learn means becoming your own philosopher , your own psychologist and your own teacher . You will then be a well-established learner and the world will be at your feet . Although the word " mind " has given rise to endless controversy among philosophers and psycho- logists , many of whom would like to abolish it from the dictionary , most of us obstinately go on using it . And then you get a knock on the head and all evidence of " mind " vanishes , at any rate for some time . It seems very difficult to detach the mind from the brain , and all the biological , surgical and pharmacological evidence points to a very close connection . There is a lot to be said for keeping the word " soul " to stand for what many believe to be the imperishable essence of a man which is supposed to persist apart from the body , and to reserve the more prosaic word " mind " for the basis of all those experiences and phenomena which are clearly associated with the brain . Can we now put forward any reasonably clear picture of this " basis " of mental phenomena ? The physicists have succeeded remarkably well , with the atomic theory , in giving a clear and detailed picture of the basis of such material phenomena as chemical action , magnetism , the behaviour of gases and so on . Where has psychology got to in its theories of " mind " ? Are there any ultimate units of mind akin to the atoms of matter ? At one time it was thought that mind could indeed be analysed into discrete bits . These bits were identified as elementary sensations . These were thought to combine together to form compound experiences by analogy with the way atoms of matter combine to form molecular compounds . But this view led to too many difficulties and was finally abandoned . Nevertheless the search for basic units of mind has gone on and will doubtless continue , for it is the aim of science to discover ultimate units . We must beware , however , of supposing that there must be any close analogy between the units of quite different sciences . For example the success of the atomic theory in physics might lead us to suppose that the ultimate units of geometry must be points . It would be more correct to regard operations as the ultimate units of geometry . There have been many conflicting tendencies in psychology in its search for ultimate units and here we can only indicate what seems to be the most promising concept which is current today . It is known as the schema . It is not an easy concept and if I try to make it concrete it will be at the cost of over-simplification but even so it may be better than a meaningless abstraction . It is the tendency to get things the wrong way round . As a psychologist I am constantly encountering this tendency in friends and acquaintances . They think there is something inevitably " queer " about psychology and this feeling of queerness usually boils down to a quite mistaken belief that the psychologist first looks into ... This is what I mean by " getting things the wrong way round " . He is far more likely to find out about how his own mind works by looking at other people's . For although looking inwards ( or " introspecting " as it is called ) , is not entirely ruled out , nowadays most psychologists would agree that it is one of the most unreliable methods of getting any precise information . And so they prefer objective methods . Since they cannot directly look into the mental processes of another person they observe his visible behaviour and then try to give theoretical interpretations of what lies behind this behaviour . This is no more queer than the method of the doctor who observes signs , and records symptoms , and diagnoses the inner states responsible for them . He may never have had the disease himself but he can nevertheless identify it . Similarly the psychologist has to be prepared to observe and make inferences about all kinds of processes in other people , whether or not they correspond with anything in his own experience . We know very little about the patterns of brain-activity which provide our schemas , nor do we need to know as far as psychology is concerned - these patterns are the concern of the neuro-physiologists . The numerically largest group , consisting of male weekly wage-earners up to chargehand level and in the works only , excluding the offices , was therefore selected . A detailed age-structure was compiled from personnel department records , revealing that there were ( at that time ) seven- teen men seventy years of age or older , thirty-three aged sixty-four years , and sixty- five just fifty years of age . A small panel was formed , not on a formally representative basis but rather of energetic and concerned individuals , from various levels in the firm . In due course the panel decided to seek further insight into the problems faced by older workers , and approached those seventy years of age or older . The Rubery , Owen scheme is now in its fourth year , and opportunity has been taken to revise the course in the light of experience . Topics for the six weekly meetings of one-and-a-half hours ( each held half in company time , half in the man's time ) are now as follows : 1 . Personal adjustment 2 . Health 3 . Work and leisure 4 . Living arrangements 5 . Financial planning 6 . Final discussion The weekend conference for the men and their wives , which takes place at company expense in a country or resort hotel , includes an address on ' The Woman's Point of View ' and one on ' Making the Most of Health ' . Separate discussions are arranged for the wives in addition to the plenary sessions . Of the men reaching fifty years of age since the scheme started , 125 ( 37.2 per cent ) have taken part . The original scheme was planned to provide short re- fresher courses at the ages of fifty-five and sixty : the first of these is due in 1963 . Meanwhile , each ' graduate ' is encouraged to seek help and advice in working out his ideas , either through the company's personnel department or by an approach to members of the panel responsible for the scheme . The latter do not regard themselves as expert advisers , but are prepared to seek out the appropriate sources of information or advice . Towards the end of 1956 , Mr. Daniel Grant , an Employee Relations Officer of Rolls-Royce Ltd. and a member of the Workers' Educational Association , submitted to the Lord Provost of Glasgow , Dr. Andrew Hood , a copy of his report on an enquiry he had made into the problems that beset older workers and the effects of retirement Hugentobler Roger The Lord Provost , having studied the report on ' The Morale and Health of Retired Workers ' , and being satisfied that the matters raised were of considerable importance to the citizens of Glasgow and warranted further study , set an informal committee representative of bodies particularly concerned with the welfare of older people to examine the report and its implications and to consider the advisability of arranging a Conference on Preparation for and Occupational Activities on Retirement . The large attendance and atmosphere of this Conference , held in October , 1957 , reflected not only an increasing awareness of the problems of men and women nearing or already in retirement but also a strong desire on the part of all concerned for concerted action towards preparing men and women for life in retirement and more adequate provision of facilities for crafts , hobbies and leisure-time interests for those who are retired . As a result , the Glasgow Retirement Council came into being in April , 1958 , with Dr. Andrew Hood as chairman and Mr. Andrew Atkinson as secretary . The Council has active committees on Education and Preparation for Retirement , and on Occupational Centres . The former consists of representatives from the Glasgow Corporation Further Education Department ; the Workers' Educational Association ; the University Extra-Mural Education Committee and departments of psychology , education and social science ; ... . In 1959 it was suggested by Mr. T. M. Banks , Assistant Director of Education for Glasgow , that industrial firms might be ready to let older employees attend day-release courses on preparation for retirement , their wages paid for the time thus spent . An approach was made to about twenty large firms and in Oc- tober , 1959 , the first experimental day-release course for men was organised . Eleven students from seven firms atten- ded a course on six full Fridays and it was made clear both to the men and their employers that the venture was an experiment from which the organisers hoped to learn as much as the participants . 1 . Are there differences in adjustment to ageing and retirement according to the occupational level of employees ? 2 . If so , which occupational levels are the better or the poorer prepared for successful adjustment to retirement and in what aspects ? 3 . Does the evidence obtained support a rationale for adapting a pre-retirement planning and preparation programme to the needs of older employees of different occupational levels ? Each time you rehearse you will probably put things in a different way . All the better ! - it will sound much more spontaneous on the occasion itself . Remember your four names - have the list with you if you like - and you simply can't be flummoxed ! Of course , in any speech a good start and a good finish are half the battle . So - see the next page ! Yes , they are waiting for you . But there is no need to be frightened . The audience will eat out of your hand - if they like what you offer them . A good start will put them in a good humour . Ladies and gentlemen ! I 'm afraid I have not had much experience of public speaking . But that 's a terrible way to begin ! Why tell them you are a novice ? It 's their interest you want - not their sympathy . And you want to get it from the word GO ! Try something like this : It is said that tele- vision keeps people at home . But you , at any rate , have proved that wrong . And they say , too , that television makes its appeal to those of lesser intelligence . May I suggest that you have proved that right ! Congratulations ! And away you go into your speech . Take some thought , too , for your ending . Thank you for listening to me so patiently . A political candidate often used that finish . No wonder he didn't get in ! Instead he might have ended this way : Well , those are my views . When he learned what was causing the commotion he became greatly alarmed , and after the body had been taken to St Thomas's Hospital it was his grief-stricken duty formally to identify Elizabeth Camp , aged thirty-three , the girl who was to have been his bride . There was little doubt of how she had met her death , and even less that it had been murder . She had been struck several times with a blunt instrument , and her head was smashed in . There were signs of a violent struggle , blood on the cushions and floor , and the remains of her broken umbrella . But a pair of bone cuff-links found in the compartment seemed to provide the only possible clue to the killer . The body was examined , and it was definitely established that no sexual assault had taken place . It seemed probable that the motive had been robbery , and this was further confirmed when a check was made with the woman's relations in Hounslow . Miss Camp had been the housekeeper at the Good Intent , a public-house in Walworth . Her day off was Thursday , and before coming up to London in the evening she had called on her two sisters , one of whom lived at Hammersmith and the other at Hounslow , where she kept a shop . Elizabeth had left Hammersmith in the late afternoon , and arrived at Hounslow around 5 P.M. , where she had tea with her other sister , and then went to catch the 7.42 . Her sister saw her to the station , helping her with some of her packages . This sister was able to establish that she had carried a green purse and had bought a railway ticket . But both purse and ticket , and the packages , were gone when the body was found at Waterloo . Neither the sisters nor Mr Berry thought it likely that she had been carrying much money . A porter at Hounslow supported the sister's statement that Elizabeth Camp had been alone in her compartment when the train left , but this did not help much , since it had made stops at nine stations before Waterloo . The police began a systematic search of the line - no easy task , but one in which patience and method paid off . At a spot on the embankment between Putney and Wandsworth they found a bloodstained pestle such as chemists use , with some hairs sticking to it . The murder weapon , more than likely , and perhaps evidence enough to have brought a killer to book in modern times . But in 1897 , alas ! there was no fingerprint bureau , no experts to check and photograph any ' dabs ' it might have yielded . It was a tough case to tackle , and Superintendent Robinson , of the L.S.W.R. Police , and Chief Inspector Marshall , of Scotland Yard , combined forces in the investigation . While accepting the likelihood that Miss Camp had been attacked for the sake of robbery , they did not overlook the possibility that this might have disguised another motive , and a thorough check of her former men friends and acquaintances began . They also had to cope with the usual flood of rumours , so- me well meant , some mischievous , including one that a man had been seen fleeing from Vauxhall station on the Thursday evening , with blood actually dripping from his hands . The inquest was opened on February 17 , but , beyond the jury hearing a formal identification of the victim and inspecting at Waterloo the carriage in which she had died , there was nothing on which to proceed , and the inquest was adjourned . Day by day the police followed up likely and even unlikely trails . It was learned that Elizabeth Camp had been lending money to her relatives , and her brother-in-law was asked for a detailed account of his movements on the 11th . The dead woman had been engaged once before - to a barman named Brown . This man agreed that his engagement had been broken off after one particular tiff , but denied that he owed Miss Camp any money . All the while the police were casting about for a man who had been seen leaving the train at Wandsworth . A passenger described this individual as a man of about thirty , of medium height , with a dark moustache , and wearing a frockcoat and a top-hat . The porter at the station bore out this description , but the man was not traced . Perhaps the news of their search got around , for a man did obligingly present himself at Wandsworth police-station , claiming to have committed the murder - but he was mentally defective , and , despite his claim to infamy , had been nowhere near the 7.42 that evening . Even the bone cuff-links found beside the body , which had at first been considered as belonging to the killer , proved yet another red herring , for it was learned that they had been borrowed by Elizabeth Camp from one of her sisters . A young man from Reading named Marshall had an uncomfortable time in the presence of the coroner . This man was known to have left his home on February 11 , and to have been away for four days . Not in itself a crime , but , added to the knowledge that he had gone shopping in the town of Guil- dford for a false moustache , it left him with something to explain . His story was that he had left home to try to join the Army ( presumably feeling that a moustache might enhance his military bearing ) , and this was accepted . And so the inquest , which had dragged on , with adjournments , until April 7 , finally had to be content to return a verdict of " wilful murder against some person or persons unknown . " The most vital clue of the Wedgwood pestle had been of no assistance . The killer must have been very thankful that the science of dactyloscopy was only in its beginnings . The next female fatality occurred eight years later , yet so strange were the circumstances that it was a further seven years before even a ghost of a solution emerged . There has always been something sinister in the idea of tunnels . The building of them was one of the most dangerous jobs con- nected with railway construction ; and there were many people who believed that to travel through tunnels would be an equally hazardous business . Some thought that the result would be all sorts of horrible illnesses brought on by the confined atmosphere . " The shareholders who travel by it will be so heartily sick , what with the foul air , smoke and sulphur , that the mention of a railway will be worse than Ipecacuanha , " wrote an anti-railway industrialist when it was proposed to build the Box Tunnel . The mere thought of subterranean travel gave others a feeling of danger . A medical journal said , " the deafening peal of thunder , the sudden immersion in gloom , and the clash of reverberated sounds in a confined space combine to produce a momentary shudder , or idea of destruction , a thrill of annihilation . " It was also prophesied that passengers would be robbed and assaulted in the darkness . For all that , as far as England is concerned , there have been only two occasions on which a body has been found in a tunnel in circumstances pointing to murder . The first was that of Mr Gold , in the famous Lefroy case , and by an odd chance the second tragedy occurred on the same line , although this time the victim was a woman . Though in the minds of most people there was no doubt that the woman had been the victim of foul play , the verdict brought in was that there was not sufficient evidence to show whether she had fallen or been thrown from a train . The Merstham Tunnel , on the London-to- Brighton line , is approximately one mile long , and some time before midnight on September 24 , 1905 , a Sunday , Sub-Inspector Peacock , of the London , Brighton and South Coast Railway , It was the battered and broken body of a woman . He sent word straight away to near-by Merstham Station , and a stretcher party took the body to the Feathers Hotel to await identification . Was it a case of suicide , where some unhappy soul had walked deliberately into the blackness and into the path of some train ? This hardly seemed likely , since , when she was examined by a local doctor , the woman , young , small , and rather plump , was found to have her own silk scarf drawn almost tight enough to strangle her , and the ends thrust in her mouth like a gag . Both her wrists bore the marks of severe bruising , and there were other injuries on her body which had occurred before her death was ensured by some train which had roared through the tunnel . There were no letters or papers found on her to assist identi fication , no money , and no railway ticket . By then reports were being gathered about all traffic over this stretch of line , but no information was forthcoming about any carriage with an open door , nor any passenger reporting an incident which might relate . So the body of this small girl with the blue eyes and long brown hair in a bun at the back of her head remained a mystery until later the following day . During that time a description of the girl was circulated , and a Mr Robert Money came forward to identify her as his sister , Mary Money , aged twenty-two . The girl , who was described as being " always bright and jolly , " had been unmarried , and lived at Lavender Hill , Clapham , on the premises of a dairyman , Bridger , for whom she worked as a book-keeper . On the Sunday , the day of her death , she had gone out in the evening at about seven o'clock , telling her room-mate , Emma Hone , that she was going for a walk , but would not be gone for long . According to Miss Hone , she had not been carrying a handbag , but she believed she had had a small purse . At Clapham Junction a ticket-collector was able to identify a photograph of the girl , and he said he had last seen her on platform six waiting to board a train for the short run to Victoria . A passenger at Victoria said he had seen a young lady " as near as possible " like the photograph shown him , with a man " very close in conversation and walking arm in arm . " A guard reported that at East Croydon he had seen what was accepted as the same couple sitting close together in a first-class compartment of the train from London Bridge of which he was in charge . The two could have joined this train by taking one from Victoria and changing at East Croydon . He also believed that they had still been together at South Croydon , and he remembered Medical evidence established that Mary Money had been dead for about an hour before her body was discovered , and this matched reasonably well with the timetable of the train in question . More important evidence came from a signalman at Purley Oaks , who had seen , as the train passed his box , a couple struggling in a first-class compartment ; but he seemed to have been used to seeing couples engaged in SOME years ago a contemporary philosopher told us that there was nothing an En- glishman would not do ; nothing an Ame- rican would not say ; nothing an Italian would not sing ; no music to which the Frenchman would not dance ; nothing the German would not covet ; and nothing the Chinese would not eat . SOME years ago a contemporary philosopher told us that there was nothing an Englishman would not do ; nothing an American would not say ; nothing an Italian would not sing ; no music to which the Frenchman would not dance ; nothing the German would not covet ; and nothing the Chinese would not eat . It is not our purpose to discuss this dictum . Suffice to say that few of us stop to marvel at the progress of civilisation which allows a dish borrowed straight from the prehistoric . How many centuries ago , in some cave or hilly hide , did our forebears home from the chase hold forth from a spear the welcome gobbet of meat or fish burnt and roasted in the homely and protecting flame . How many centuries later did the mercenary in the Roman wars thus impale on pike or lance his evening meal . Later came the thrifty peasant , later still the young Victorian buck adventuring in Paris , and even later our attractive young ladies toying with these primitive morsels in the gleam and glitter of our latter-day restaurants . And , if certain dishes and modes of food have persisted down the ages , the motive that preserved them has always been the same . Apart from the need for nourishment , the instinct of hospitality has always been strong in mankind . The sharing of a meal in those earliest dangerous days was an admittance into an acquaintanceship far more important than the casual meetings of the present day ; the desire to share something more intimate than mere converse has always been there . The truth is that good food offers a programme of entertainment almost unlimited in its variety and its presen- tation affords an opportunity of showing a guest something of ourselves . It is a far enough cry from the primitive meal-times of a simpler world to the banquets of later days , when the table groaned under its load of complicated dishes , and for all the blossoming of the arts around them the diners were little There was always the spice of an orgy in those Roman feasts , for instance , with all their peacocks and nightingales' tongues ; unreasonable surfeit , too , in the elaborate fashion of eating brought out of Italy into France , we are told , by Catherine de Medici . The peasant in those days , as ever , ate sparingly , but generously enough in his own fashion , save at feast times , when he , too , let himself go ; and it was from his simpler Epicures and gourmands , sated by the unending procession of dishes from those mammoth kitchens of the 18th century - that amazing epoch of grossness and delicacy - sought inspiration at last from the dishes of the country , and , instead of gorging the eye with magnitude , began to understand the value of intelligent selection and comparative simplicity , though nowadays their simplified meals would seem quite monstrous . Epicures and gourmands , sated by the unending procession of dishes from those mammoth kitchens of the 18th century - that amazing epoch of grossness and delicacy - sought inspiration at last from the dishes of the country , and , instead of gorging the eye with magnitude , began to understand the value of intelligent selection and comparative simplicity , though nowadays their simplified meals would seem quite Does one , however , know who first thought of boiling water and food ? The ancient Britons , I believe , used to make water hot by dropping a red-hot poker into it , because their pots would not stand fire ; but Jacob must have had one that would , because Esau sold his birthright to him for a mess of pottage - and then we hear of the fleshpots of Egypt after which the Israelites sighed . Does one , however , know who first thought of boiling water and food ? The ancient Britons , I believe , used to make water hot by dropping a red-hot poker into it , because their pots would not stand fire ; but Jacob must have had one that would , because Esau sold his birthright to him for a mess of pottage - and then we hear of the fleshpots of Egypt after which the Israelites sighed . Anyhow , Homer does not seem to have known any way of cooking meat except by roasting and boiling . When Achilles gave a royal feast the principal dish was a grill , which he cooked himself , and he knew how to do it , too : - When the languid flames at length subside , He throws a bed of glowing embers wide ; Above the coals the smoking fragment turns , And sprinkles sacred salt from lifted urns Anyhow , Homer does not seem to have known any way of cooking meat except by roasting and boiling . When Achilles gave a royal feast the principal dish was a grill , which he cooked himself , and he knew how to do it , too : - When the languid flames at length subside , He throws a bed of glowing embers wide ; Above the coals the smoking fragment turns , And sprinkles sacred salt from lifted urns . When , however , the Greeks did learn the art of making fireproof earthenware from the Egyptians , their cookery made rapid progress , because they were men of taste and intellect . A remarkable peculiarity in the banquets of the ancient world was the fact that they did not confine the resources of the table to the gratification of one sense alone . Having exhausted their invention in the preparation of stimulants for the palate , they broke fresh ground and called another sense to their aid . When , however , the Greeks did learn the art of making fireproof earthenware from the Egyptians , their cookery made rapid progress , because they were men of taste and intellect . A remarkable peculiarity in the banquets of the ancient world was the fact that they did not confine the resources of the table to the gratification of one sense alone . Having exhausted their invention in the preparation of stimulants for the palate , they broke fresh ground and called another sense to their aid . By delicate application of odours and richly-distilled perfumes , these refined voluptuaries aroused the fainting appetite and added a more exquisite and ethereal enjoyment to the grosser pleasures of the board . The gratification of the sense of smelling was a subject of no little importance to the Romans . They considered flowers as forming a very essential article in their festal preparations ; and it is the opinion of Bassius that at their desserts the number of flowers far exceeded the number of fruits . By delicate application of odours and richly- distilled perfumes , these refined voluptuaries aroused the fainting appetite and added a more exquisite and ethereal enjoyment to the grosser pleasures of the board . The grati- fication of the sense of smelling was a subject of no little importance to the Romans . They considered flowers as forming a very essential article in their festal preparations ; and it is the opinion of Bassius that at their desserts the number of flowers far exceeded the number of fruits . When Nero supped in # his Golden House , a mingled shower of flowers and odorous essences fell upon him ; and one of the recreations of Heliogabalus was to smother his courtiers with flowers . Nor was it entirely as an object of luxury that the ancients made use of flowers ; they were considered to possess sanative and medicinal qualities . According to Pliny , and others , certain herbs and flowers proved of sovereign power clarifying the functions of the brain . It is said that there is nothing new under the sun , but regarding foodstuffs the traveller occasionally encounters a certain measure of novelty . According to Pliny , and others , certain herbs and flowers proved of sovereign power in preventing the approaches of ebriety , or , as Bassius less clearly expresses it , in clarifying the functions of the brain . It is said that there is nothing new under the sun , but regarding foodstuffs the traveller occasionally encounters a certain measure of novelty . In China , for instance , dried rats are esteemed a delicacy . The visitor is told that they restore the hair of the bald and that a stewed black rat will ward off a fever . A number of newly-born white mice served alive , dipped in treacle and swallowed like a prairie oyster is considered a piece of resistance . In China , for instance , dried rats are esteemed a delicacy . The visitor is told that they restore the hair of the bald and that a stewed black rat will ward off a fever . A number of newly-born white mice served alive , dipped in treacle and swallowed like a prairie oyster is considered a piece of resistance . Among the natives of Northern Australia lizards roasted on the point of a spear are definitely a delicacy while Mediterranean peoples have a high opinion of the octopus as an article of diet . So have the Japanese and the Chinese . The Celestials , apart from eating it fresh , squash it , press it and dry it , in which form , dusted over with flour , you will find a stack of it in almost any provision shop . Among the natives of Northern Australia lizards roasted on the point of a spear are definitely a delicacy while Mediterranean peoples have a high opinion of the octopus as an article of diet . So have the Japanese and the Chinese . The Celestials , apart from eating it fresh , squash it , press it and dry it , in which form , dusted over with flour , you will find a stack of it in almost any provision shop . Foodlore reflects much more of national temperament than is customarily imagined as well as entering human activities to a greater extent than is usually assumed . We naturally cannot overlook that Magyar cookery owes one of its most classic features to the Turkish rule under which the Hungarians groaned for nearly 200 years . If that country had not been for so long a battlefield red with the blood shed to defend Christian civilisation , Hungary would have been deprived of the condiment which provides many Magyar dishes with a vivid and brilliant The Austrian cuisine embraces the delectable 6Wiener Schnitzel as well as dishes and stews heightened with aromatics where the paprika insinuates its perfidious fire , aerian creams , ingenious pastries and a crescent-shaped breakfast roll created by a pastry cook to celebrate the victory against the Turks in 1683 . Spanish cookery is reminiscent of bull-fights , of Spanish dancing and of Goja : it is vivid , highly coloured , sometimes Quixotic and withal it has a sombre ardour , with streaks of poetry , meat disguised under heavy and vehement The Czechoslovak kitchen , again , is so languorous , so passionate , and possibly comparable alone to a gypsy melody . The paprika and caraway perfume the meats with their antithesis . The opulent varieties of Czechoslovak past- ries recall in fact the rich heritage of rich embroideries and costumes specifically national . The art and science of cookery , however , is essentially French , and , irrespective of The French have an inborn appreciation of good food and the gusto which they derive from gastronomy is intellectual and aesthetic as well as physical . There is the same finesse about their feeding , the same subtle delicacy of touch , the same unfailing sense of proportion as exists among her writers , music composers and other exponents of things that are typically French . Wagner was a highly practical feeder . He ate very fast , placing his food in his mouth and gulping it down as he talked . Brigham Young would make a dinner on tripe which he washed down with beer . A writer who had dinner with Dickens says the menu was Whitstable oysters , a brown sole , a baked leg of mutton with oyster & veal stuffing and a gin punch . The French have an inborn appreciation of good food and the gusto which they derive from gastronomy is intellectual and aesthetic as well as physical . There is the same finesse about their feeding , the same subtle delicacy of touch , the same unfailing sense of proportion as exists among her writers , music composers and other exponents of things that are typically French . The " pot-au-feu " is as much a national institution in France as is tea drinking among ourselves and it is prepared at least once a week in every bourgeois household . Thackeray , of course , waxed enthusiastic about Bouilla- baisse and sang - This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is , A sort of soup , or broth , or brew , A hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes That Greenwich never could outdo ; Green herbs , red peppers , The " pot-au-feu " is as much a national institution in France as is tea drinking among ourselves and it is prepared at least once a week in every bourgeois household . Thackeray , of course , waxed enthusiastic about Bouillabaisse and sang - This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is , A sort of soup , or broth , or brew , A hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes That Greenwich never could outdo ; Green herbs , red peppers , mussels , saffron , Soles , onions , garlic , roach and dace . A fascinating study also opens up in the dietary welcomed by men of genius as well as the foods for which they have had an aversion . Shelley , for example , had a great contempt for animal food , believing that it impaired the intellectual faculties . Bunyan's break- fast and supper consisted of a piece of coarse bread and a bowl of milk . A fascinating study also opens up in the dietary welcomed by men of genius as well as the foods for which they have had an aversion . Shelley , for example , had a great contempt for animal food , believing that it # impaired the intellectual faculties . Bunyan's breakfast and supper consisted of a piece of coarse bread and a bowl of milk . Dante Gabriel Rossetti had simple tastes in food . At one dinner he is said to have been blind to the charms of turbot and to have been much more interested in the dish in which it was served . He turned it over on the table cloth to examine the marks on the back without going through the formality of having his turbot removed first . Dante Gabriel Rossetti had simple tastes in food . At one dinner he is said to have been blind to the charms of turbot and to have been much more interested in the dish in which it was served . He turned # it over on the table cloth to examine the marks on the back without going through the formality of having his turbot removed first . THE SAME MAN WENT TO SEE CARLYLE , AND , AFTER MENTIONING THAT HE HAD DINED WITH LONGFELLOW TOLD THE SAGE A VERY FUNNY STORY WHICH MADE CARLYLE ABSOLUTELY LAUGH ; BUT ALL THE CHELSEA PHILOSOPHER DID IN RETURN WAS TO ASK IF HIS GUEST WOULD HAVE A CUP OF TEA ! The same man went to see Carlyle , and , after mentioning that he had dined with Longfellow told the sage a very funny story which made Carlyle absolutely laugh ; but all the Chelsea philosopher did in return was to ask if his guest would have a cup of tea ! A Scottish knight - Sir John Mercer - was imprisoned in England . His son , in revenge , was harrying English shipping as far away as Cherbourg , and doing it to some purpose . John Philpot , one of that new class of merchant financiers which the city of London was now producing , fitted , equipped and manned a fleet from his own resources , and captured the young Mercer in a brilliant Channel fight . It was naturally a highly popular victory with the Londoners , but it brought heavy censure from nobles who still believed that they had a monopoly of leadership . But , at last , Gaunt sailed . Opposing him was the French Admiral , Jean de Vienne - a great sailor and an able strategist . Obedient to the policy of his King , de Vienne avoided trouble at sea as cleverly as Du Guesclin avoided it on land . Gaunt was compelled to give up his search for an elusive foe , and , afraid to return home without something to show , he foolishly attempted to besiege the well-protected fortress of St Malo . This involved the dreary method of mining operations in which Gaunt , under the Black Prince , had shown considerable skill at the siege of Limoges . When all seemed to be going well , a sortie surprised moment had charge of the mine ; the mine collapsed fame and glory . Gaunt was compelled to return even despised failure . The ' ribald ' Londoners , who Hawley , were also expressing their disappointment comparing the failure of a subsidized duke citizen . These dreary years of ineffective fighting provide obvious morals for those who are judges long after the event . It seems obvious that , though the longbows of yeomen could pierce the plate and mail of French knights , a brilliant battle was no substitute for a sound policy , and that , if archers had no target , campaigns became mere marauding route marches . It seems obvious that if an expedition to Brittany was compelled to attack via Calais , then the primary essential to the success of the French war was a navy in unquestioned command of the Channel . It seems obvious that divided forces were dissipating the advantages of a ring of bridge-heads which included Calais , Cherbourg , Brest , Bordeaux and Bayonne , and that there was no hope of final victory without a large-scale and concentrated invasion . BUT NONE OF THESE DEDUCTIONS WERE DRAWN AT THE TIME , BECAUSE LARGE- SCALE WAR REQUIRED MONEY , AND THE CITIZENS WHO HAD THE MONEY WERE NOT YET SUFFICIENTLY AT ONE WITH NOBLES AND KING TO THINK THEIR MONEY WELL SPENT IN FIN- ANCING A RULING CLASS WHICH DESPISED THEM . THE COMMONS WERE GLAD ENOUGH TO ENJOY THE FRUITS In this cruel process which was hammering out nations on the anvils of war , there was a constant stirring of those in authority to find some simple way out of the complicated financial 6impasse which always resulted , and in the story of the experiments and expedients to which the Exchequer resorted is the story of the prelude to the Peasants' Revolt of 1381 . In appreciating this story , modern con- ceptions of governmental duties must be set aside . A modern government needs taxation not merely for defence and offence but for a very wide range of social services . A mediaeval oligarchy needed taxation in order to supplement the private wealth of the monarchy ( the royal income from the revenues of crown lands , the fees of feudalism Social service as a function of government was quite alien to mediaeval thought - its substitute was the mutual self-help of communities , whether those communities were monasteries , manors , townships , or wards and guilds of a city . A mediaeval tax was therefore in essence a forced payment whose return was the uncertain bounty of booty and the vague advantages of military glory ; it was therefore always granted grudgingly and coupled with the vain hope that , in the When ' his ' war did not bring victory and booty , a new group of Lords might oust the unsuccessful leaders , and the Commons , who usually supplied the hard cash , might be bold enough to demand the production of accounts , and even at times the impeachment of the unsuccessful . But the Commons were not the people , and even a full Parliament was not yet a true mirror of the nation . The people - Langland's ' folk ' and Gaunt's ' knaves ' - were villeins still tied to the feudal obligations of work or villeins who had bought their release , free labourers who worked for the highest bidders , free yeomen who had prospered enough to become successful farmers , the artisans , craftsmen , journeymen and small tradesmen of the towns , and the retainers and men-at-arms in the pay of landed Lords . None of these classes , except the yeomen , paid or expected to pay direct taxes . During the four- teenth century , the traditional methods of financing the Exchequer had become stabilized . When the King and his Council required additio- nal funds , they were usually granted an export tax on the wool trade , collected by means of that ' staple ' system which ensured that prices , quality and tax could be efficiently su- pervised and controlled , together with a There were two other sources of public revenue - first , the Church , which wisely followed the lead of the Commons and in its own Convocations granted equivalent contributions , and second , the foreign merchants , with whom the King's officials had formerly made private bargains at ' colloquies of merchants ' , and whose payments were now authorized by parliamentary sanction at a rate roughly fifty per cent in excess of the rate for native merchants . In addition to these revenues , the King had the financial benefits of his position at the head of the feudal system , as its chief landowner and the recipient of the fines of royal justice . It was , therefore , a complicated and not very satisfactory financial system in which the borders between private and public purse were as ill-defined as the borders between private and national war , and in which the comparati- vely simple obligations of the feudal pyramid But this time there was a very interesting attempt to apply a sliding scale to the payments demanded . The definition of an adult was altered to read ' over sixteen ' , and , where the poorest were to pay a groat , the Duke of Lancaster and the Archbishops of Canterbury and York were to pay ten marks , and between these two extremes a graduated scale of payments was fixed for the different classes of laymen and clerics . Again the resentment was widespread and the results disappointing - a tax estimated to yield 50,000 in fact raised only 27,000 . In the following year , 1380 , the last and most notorious third poll-tax was agreed by a Parliament which met at Northampton . There were dark reasons for a meeting so far away from the capital in a town with poor communications and not over supplied with hostelries and lodgings . London was again in turmoil ; but this time over a question of trade rivalry . A rich mer- chant from Genoa had been murdered , and John de Kyrkby , a Londoner , was one of those charged with the crime . It is clear from the chronicles that this was a sordid quarrel between monopolists and interlopers . The city merchants were jealous of foreign merchants who could tempt court and baronage with rarer luxuries than those A sum of 160,000 was demanded - a staggering figure to mediaeval eyes . It was determined that 100,000 was a fairer target , and the Parliament agreed to find two-thirds of this sum providing the clergy supplied the remainder . The method of assessment to which the Commons agreed was that of the first poll-tax . The manifest injustice of this method had been to a certain degree corrected by the sliding scale of the second poll-tax , but this lesson was ignored , and the injustice trebled in weight by a flat-rate tax at treble the rate - every adult had to pay three groats , but this time an adult was re- Trebling the rate was arrived at by a simple arithmetic which argued that , as the first poll-tax had supplied 22,000 , a tax of three times the rate would produce 66,000 . The only concession made in view of the objections to the first two poll-taxes was the suggestion that the rich should help the poor - but this was only a pious hope because no machinery was provided for carrying it into effect , and a subordinate In Chapter Two he gauged the nature of the heart's movements from the dissection of living animals , showing how these move- ments alternate with rests and are seen best in cold animals or in flagging warmer ones . At the time of its movement the heart becomes generally constricted , its walls thicken , its ventricles decrease in volume and it expels its content of blood , appearing paler in so doing in animals such as serpents , frogs , and the like . At one and the same time , therefore , occur the beat of the apex , the thickening of the heart walls , and the forcible expulsion of their contained blood by the contraction of the ventricles . Going on in Chapter Three to the movement of the arteries , likewise gauged from the dissections of living animals , Harvey noted that contraction of the heart and the apex beat occur in systole , simultaneously with dilatation of the arteries and of the artery-like vein , and expulsion of the ventricular content . Arterial pulsation disappears with cessation of ventricular contraction . During cutting or puncture of the ventricles , there is often forcible expulsion of blood from the wound . Arterial diastole is thus synchronous with cardiac systole but , when movement of blood through arteries is hindered by compression , infarction or inter- ception , the more distal arteries pulsate less because their pulse is nothing other than the impulse of the blood entering them . ' And while the heart is slowly dying , one can sometimes see it - so to speak - rouse itself and , in reply to two or three auricular beats , produce a single ventricular one slowly and reluctantly and with an effort . ' Sentence Database Yet in spite of the fact that his ideas did his business no good George would never conceal them . He was a socialist and believed in the right of the working class to control their own destiny , and said so . Being a craftsman and a skilled man , George won many prizes , and though some people would have nothing to do with him , others would , and the comrades helped in many ways . When eventually the ovens were fixed at the new shop , the tremen- dously hard work was if anything intensified . George used to mix 100 stone of bread in 12 hours , and Kate served in the shop , which was open from 8 o'clock in the morning to 12 o'clock at night . At that time pastries and buns were sold at 32 pieces for one shilling . ( In this strike , as reported in the Sheffield Guardian in March of that year , 1,000,000 men were out a fortnight , disciplined and solid , when only 20 per cent of them stood to gain anything from the strike and the other 80 per cent made sacrifices for their fellow men ; this remarkable strike raised the question of a living wage and showed the worth of the common man . ) Soon they were good enough to sing at meetings . One of the helpful by-products was that they were able to obtain some respectable clothing , with which they wore a white tie and Red Flag badge , thus presenting a much better appearance . Later , on many a sunny Sunday evening , when George went to speak at Malin Bridge , they would be there to begin the meeting . As they became known the Choir went to working- men's clubs , to Conisborough on cheap trips to sing to the miners , and sang for other organisations such as the Bakers' Union , for whom they went on Satur- day evenings to the Corner Pin Hotel , to rally the members . The B.S.P. also rented pleasant rooms on West Street , where a successful Sunday school was held . One of the students was young George , and another the dark-haired little granddaughter of Charlie Grant . George often spoke at the Sunday school . He christened the babies . Also , when called upon to do so , he would officiate at funerals . Religion was one of his pet subjects , for being well acquainted with the Bible , which he had read in prison where it was the only book they were allowed , Although his ideas were diametrically opposed to those of parsons he got on wonderfully well with them , particularly those who , like the Rev. Conrad Noel , the eloquent leader of the Church Socialist League , genuinely advocated socialism . With such men , who had the courage of their convictions and their Christianity , common ground could be found . There was no abatement in political work . The British Socialist Party endea- voured to get more socialist members sent to the Council , and to Parliament , being deter- mined and obdurate in their attitude that their candidate must go forward in the elections . In the Sheffield Trades and Labour Council meeting on October 16 , 1912 , George had said , ' Mr. Barton would go to the poll . Just as the Labour Party had fought the Liberals , they were going to fight the Labour This new party , the British Socialist Party , was not prepared to accept the role of junior helper in the Labour movement , or of only providing propaganda in order to increase the volume of socialist thought in the city , but sought to create in the Labour movement a more militant attitude capable of achieving socialism for the working people . Alf Barton , who in 1911 was presented with a book on the life of Marx , and a gold purse in recognition of his work for the movement , was later known to say that it was not ne- cessary to understand Marxism in order to understand socialism , though at this time he was a keen member of the B.S.P. . Dr. Davidson said he would go for a walk over the fields while we attended to our business . To my amusement , when we met at tea at the rectory after the Dedication , the Archbishop said he had been stopped by a farmer in a field . He seemed rather indignant , but we took the episode without a smile till afterwards . The Hall proved most useful , especially in winter when the distance to the church deterred many from coming to Sunday Evensong . We managed to furnish a table with cross and candles , and the people appreciated the Church Hall for worship as well as for more secular purposes . In 1910 Dr. Talbot was translated to Winchester , and Dr. Hubert Burge became Bishop of Southwark . Meanwhile I had been asked to do a bit of Diocesan work in connection with Higher Religious Education , and to become the Southwark Secretary of the Church Reading Union . This meant organizing lectures and courses of religious instruction through the Diocese , and I also found myself a member of the Diocesan Conference , where I remember introducing myself as the incumbent of the highest church in the Diocese . There was a somewhat shocked atmosphere in some quarters , until I explained that my church was 800 feet high above the sea level ! The work was growing pretty heavy , and we managed to get a stipendiary layman who could help among the children and young people . It was while I was at Tatsfield that I first visited Oberammergau in Bavaria to witness the Passion Play . The place and its people were to play an important part in my life . For five years in succession till war broke out in 1914 , I spent my summer holidays there and became very intimate with the people and the environs . Every year between the Passion Plays , an interval of ten years , another play would be performed at the small theatre in the village , when new talent would be discovered and trained . After the First World War , 1914 , I did not visit Germany for ten years , by which time in 1924 I was in a different parish in Surrey . Towards the end of my five and a half years' incumbency I was asked if I would start a village choral society and conduct it . This opened up a new interest , and we plunged into it . First of all simple part-songs : I found only one member who had any idea of reading music . This was the village doctor who was an old school friend at Clifton . He could sustain the tenor part quite well and lead the others . As for basses and altos the conductor had to teach by singing the parts with them . It was very amusing , and by the end of a few months an enthusiastic choir of men and women could render simple part-singing tolerably well . Then we went to work on Coleridge Taylor's ' Hiawatha's Wedding Feast . ' Enthusiasm grew , and in a few more months we gave a concert at which the accompanist was the village schoolmaster , and the tenor solo ' Onaway awake ' was sung by the Rector . Friends from Limpsfield , in addition to the villagers , came up , and we were all happy . IN 1913 Dr. Burge , Bishop of Southwark , asked me to go as Vicar of St. Mark's , Woodcote , Purley , a new church built by the well-known architect Mr. George Fellowes Prynne , who was to become a very intimate friend , and I was later on joint executor of his estate with his solicitor cousin . As Bishop Talbot had told me that I ought not to spend many years in Tatsfield , we held great family consultations . My eldest brother was then living in Limpsfield with his family , and found a very suitable house nearby where my mother settled , and eventually died in 1926 at the age of 92 . Dr. Burge was not able to be present at the Institution and Induction Service in St. Mark's . This was taken by the Suffragan Bishop of Woolwich , Dr. John Leake , who lived at Blackheath , and was a close friend of ours . But what a change from the dear little old church at Tatsfield to the great modern church of St. Mark's at Purley . One felt at Tatsfield that , small as the church was , it had its own atmosphere , and for centuries had been a House of Prayer . I could not but feel the chilliness of the new church , beautiful as it was and is . When we had found a group of people who gladly co-operated , we made the little side chapel a place of daily prayer . I suggested to the congregation that it needed warming up by constant prayer and worship , and we found many to help . Gifts of candlesticks and stained-glass lancet windows - finally a new altar - helped to furnish the chapel as a little sanctuary for prayer and quiet . In time we received similar gifts for the High Altar , and large East and West windows . It was very interesting to have the privilege of filling such a beautiful building with suitable fittings ; I made a rule that all gifts should be submitted for approval to the architect , himself a fine artist . It is quite possible to put beautiful things into a beautiful church and yet spoil the building with ornaments unsui- table to the environs . We also had a little Mission Hall leading off the Brighton Road , in a street full of small houses . This was called Ellen Avenue when I first went there , but was soon changed into the better- sounding name of Lansdowne Road . There were lots of children there , and we had a flourishing Sunday School and an evening service . I soon saw that the parish needed more help both at the church and Mission district . The Church Army Captain had done very good work in the Lansdowne Road district , but I needed more help in the church for the full rota of services on Sundays and weekdays . Most fortunately I was able to engage the Rev. E. U. Evitt in 1913 soon after I had come , and he organized the Mission district and got to know , and be known by , many of the people of the parish . A great blow disturbed all our efforts in the following year , 1914 , when war broke out . Very soon Chaplains for the Forces were urgently needed , and I felt clearly that one of us must volunteer . The Bishop , Dr. Burge , did not wish me to go then , as I had barely been in the parish for a year . Mr. Evitt , however , was much less committed than his Vicar , and he was accepted at once and was very soon in France where he did splendid work until his health broke down and he had a bad attack of enteric fever . Meanwhile in Purley there was much activity and much co-operation especially with the other Christian communities . At a large public meeting we launched the project known as the ' Coulsdon and Purley Patriotic Fund ' in whose counsels and committees I found myself deeply involved . At first , the main work was to help wives and relations of the soldiers to get their ' Separation ' allowances , but soon , alas ! , as casualties began and increased in the winter of 1914 and 1915 the matter of War Pensions became very urgent , and I was asked to be Chairman of the Committee in Coulsdon and Purley . Indeed , for the next seventeen years , during my time at Purley , and from 1922 at Surbiton , I was continuously Chairman of the local War Pensions Committee . This task involved a very great deal of detailed work for the Committee . We had a splendid body of local residents , and a series of excellent Honorary Secretaries . Our Committee met once a week in the evenings , and included professional men from every walk of life . Very soon we managed to get a hut in Purley where soldiers were very welcome and the ladies organized a canteen . Life was in those years more than busy . We now had a vicarage next to the church , and I was most fortunate in having for eight years a most able and devoted housekeeper whom I had known well in Limpsfield where she had a house next to the church . On hearing that I was to leave Tatsfield and come to Purley she offered to come and look after me . She was a real treasure , of yeoman stock and clever in all domestic things , a widow who knew how to look after the ' boy , ' who was the only other occupant of the house when Mr. Evitt had gone . We gathered together a splendid Sunday afternoon service at the church , each child being given a number which , as they came into church , they could just whisper to the superintendent who filled in the regi- ster at her own home . Each child had a picture given them and the lesson was largely based on this . It was on a stamp which could be stuck in their book , and there was quite a clamour for back stamps if a child had to miss the Sunday Church from any cause It was quite amusing to see how much the children enjoyed the service , and I heard of parents or faithful nurses threaten any naughty child with the penalty of not being allowed to come to the Children's Church on Sunday afternoon . I hope the threat kept them good in the week , but anyway they were a most delightful lot , and it is a great joy to meet them now fifty years afterwards when so many are parents or even grandparents Speaking of churchwardens and children leads me at once to chronicle a most intimate and lasting friendship begun in 1913 in Purley and continuing till old age to-day . When I went to St. Mark's , the first contact I made was with the Vicar's Warden , Mr. F. W. Charlton and his family , the youngest of whose three sons was just coming into the world in this year of 1913 . From then till now the acquaintance ripened into a very deep friendship which I have taken with me through all the many vicissitudes of a long ministry . Mr. and Mrs. Charlton have been from the first difficult years of war , when most lives were upset and some tempers were easily frayed , the most loyal and devoted friends . Their homes - for since those years they have lived on in Purley - have always been havens of rest , and the welcome has never failed . Their three boys , now successful men , were in our Children's Church from the outset , and when we don't see one another we do not forget . In those early years 1914-18 , life was very full both in the parish and in the wider war activities . The Bishop , knowing that I spent my holidays in Bavaria , asked me if I would do something for two wards at the Royal Herbert Hospital , full of war prisoners . I was very glad to help in this way , and visited them frequently , establishing at once a friendly contact with the Bavarian wounded who were delighted to find someone who knew their native villages . I could at once notice the great antagonism between the Bavarians and the Prussians who openly scorned these more simple country folk . Less than no response from the Russian side led one to fear that the event might well have the outcome that the Nazis evidently hoped might lead to disaster . Then there had been much talk of the setting up among the German population of a general system of " francs-tireurs " , to be named " Werewolves " . The Nazi fortress concept turned out to be nothing more than a fantasy . Thanks to the good sense of the front line soldiers , the meeting of East and West was marked by the use of no weapon more lethal than vodka . And the effect on the German people of the first ten years of the promised thousand of Nazi rule , so far from creating a spirit of warlike frenzy , had produced universally a dull bewildered apathy . So far had our thinking led us in this matter of the " Werewolves " that we had contemplated the necessity of very special precautions to guard the lives of our airmen . Particular hatred , we felt , was bound to be aimed at the representatives of those who had , over the years , spread such ghastly havoc , destruction and death over Germany , causing such wholesale slaughter among men , women and children , old and young alike . By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy any- thing . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; # he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy any- thing . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops are very fine . ' When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the # winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the tempe- rature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life # truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the govern- ment by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the # Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the govern- ment by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . # ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infa- tuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultra- toryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dis- solution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infa- tuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I under- stand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symp- toms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown them- selves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown them- selves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numer- ous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years . . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous con- ventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful mala- dy . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express took him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed him- self to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death , the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother- in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Angle- sey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's bro- ther-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Pon- sonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in # May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapo- litan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 . Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever # being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and # persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being Mauro's first action was to write to his re- vered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he descri- bed his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tem- pered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . ' Later in the year , the idea of some sort of public employment was again in the air . Lady Cowper , for instance , told Princess Lieven on September 25th that Anglesey was very much annoyed at not obtaining the Admiralty in place of Lord Auckland , who had gone to govern India . If there was any truth in this , Lord Melbourne's letter of the following day , offering Anglesey the Government of Gibraltar , may have been a sop . ' It is ' , he wrote , ' one of the best military situations which the Crown has to bestow - the salary has been settled ... at five thousand pounds yearly , it being understood that the Governor is not here- after to be absent from his post . It has struck me that 1altho' very improbable it is not quite impossible that you might be willing to accept of this appointment . ' The reply was not bereft of asperity : ' Beaudesert , Sept. 27 , 1835 ' Dear Melbourne , ' I have received your letter of yesterday . ' I am not prepared to spend the remainder of my life at Gibraltar , & moreover ( if even residence were not the condition ) , having no taste for a sinecure , I have only to thank you for the offer & to decline it . ' I remain , dear Melbourne , faithfully yours , ' ANGLESEY ' Soon after his return from Europe , Clarence Paget had become seriously ill with a supposed abscess on the lungs . After months of suffering , his life was almost despaired of when as a last resort it was suggested that the patient should be taken to consult Hahnemann once again . It was no longer necessary to go further than Paris , for by this time the great man had been driven from his native Germany by the antipathy of his orthodox brethren . The main difficulty was how to make the expedition from England without killing the patient before he completed it . The problem was overcome in an interesting manner . ' Fortunately , ' wrote Clarence in after years , ' the King ... remembered there was a luxurious old bed travelling-carriage in the royal coach-houses , which had carried his brother , George 4 . , and he kindly placed it at the disposal of my father . Into it I was put , more dead than alive , and we got across to Calais , and from thence by easy stages to Paris ... He wrote down every symptom , examined me all over , asked ever so many questions which I had scarcely strength to answer , and took up his gold- headed cane to depart . My father hung upon every word , but could get nothing from him . WHEN HE SAW TRELAWNY'S PRINTED LETTER , LORD SIDNEY WROTE TO DOUGLAS KINNAIRD SAYING THAT IT WAS INCORRECT THROUGHOUT . HE HAD NO SOONER HEARD FROM COUNT GAMBA AND FLETCHER THAT BYRON WOULD HAVE WISHED HIS BODY TO RETURN TO ENGLAND THAN THAT COURSE WAS ' IMMEDIATELY CARRIED INTO EFFECT ' - NOT IN SPITE OF HIMSELF AND SIR FREDERICK STOVEN , BUT WITH THEIR PERFECT CONCURRENCE , WHILE ' GENERAL ADAM WAS AT CORFU THE WHOLE TIME AND NEVER INTER- FERED IN THE SLIGHTEST DEGREE ABOUT ... When he saw Trelawny's printed letter , Lord Sidney wrote to Douglas Kinnaird saying that it was incorrect throughout . He had no sooner heard from Count Gamba and Fletcher that Byron would have wished his body to return to England than that course was ' immediately carried into effect ' - not in spite of himself and Sir Frederick Stoven , but with their perfect con- currence , while ' General Adam was at Corfu the whole time and # never interfered in the slightest degree about the matter ' . HIS ONLY REFERENCE TO TRELAWNY BY NAME IN THE COURSE OF SEVERAL COMMUNICATIONS TO HOBHOUSE AND KINNAIRD ABOUT BYRON'S AFFAIRS IS SATIRICAL : ' I HAVE NOT THE 1HONOR OF ANY ACQUAINTANCE WITH MR TRELAWNY WHO SEEMS TO HAVE HAD CHARGE OF THE MULE WHEN COUNT GAMBA ACCOMPANIED THE REMAINS OF OUR DECEASED FRIEND TO ZANTE ... . . ' IF TRELAWNY FAILED EVEN TO MEET LORD SIDNEY AND THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT'S OTHER REPRESENTATIVES IN THE ISLANDS , WHILE THEY WARMLY WELCOMED ... His only reference to Trelawny by name in the course of several communications to Hobhouse and Kinnaird about Byron's affairs is satirical : ' I have not the 1honor of any acquaintance with Mr Trelawny who seems to have had charge of the Mule when Count Gamba accompanied the remains of our deceased friend to Zante ... . ' If Trelawny failed even to meet Lord Sidney and the British Government's other representatives in the islands , while they warmly welcomed Gamba to their counsels , it would go far to explain his attempts to exalt himself at the young Italian's expense . IN HIS POPULAR AND ACUTELY UNRELIABLE BOOK ON BYRON AND SHELLEY , TRELAWNY IMPLIES THAT NOT ONLY GAMBA BUT FLETCHER AND TITA AND THE STEWARD , LEGA ZAMBELLI , FAILED TO PERFORM THE MOST ELEMENTARY DUTIES TOWARDS THE DEAD . HE PRETENDS TO HAVE FOUND EVERYTHING IN UTTERMOST DISORDER - ' TOKENS THAT THE PILGRIM HAD MOST TREASURED , SCATTERED ON THE FLOOR , - AS RUBBISH OF NO MARKE- TABLE VALUE , AND TRAMPLED ON ' . In his popular and acutely unreliable book on Byron and Shelley , Trelawny implies that not only Gamba but Fletcher and Tita and the steward , Lega Zambelli , failed to perform the most elementary duties towards the dead . He pretends to have found everything in uttermost disorder - ' tokens that the Pilgrim had most treasured , scattered on the floor , - as rubbish of no marketable value , and trampled on ' . This was to give colour to his pretext for copying Byron's last letter to his sister , which was that its chance of reaching its destination had seemed slight . The collection of Pietro Gamba's letters deposited among the Murray manuscripts show that the greatest care was observed in gathering together all the possessions of a man whose importance was fully recognized by everyone about him . ' I have had put under Government seal his belongings , which will be opened by Prince Alexander Mavrocordato in my presence and that of certain Englishmen who are here . I have taken an exact inventory of them . ' Thus on April 21st , several days before Trelawny appeared , Gamba wrote to Lord Sidney Osborne , and his inventory has been preserved . The papers were reopened in the presence of leading Missolonghi officials in order to make sure that no recent will was amongst them . I have taken an exact inventory of them . ' Thus on April 21st , several days before Trelawny appeared , Gamba wrote to Lord Sidney Osborne , and his inventory has been preserved . The papers were reopened in the presence of leading Missolonghi officials in order to make sure that no recent will was amongst them . It may have been then that Trelawny contrived to do his copying . Considering that Pietro was not above twenty-three years of age when he undertook a load of heavy responsibilities , his conduct reveals him as one of the most intelligent as well as the most sympathetic of Byron's 6entourage in Greece . With his good looks - for he ' carried the passport of a very handsome person ' - his good manners and his perfect lack of pretension , he even succeeded in disarming Hobhouse's possessiveness and making him forget how deeply he had disapproved , less than two years Augusta Leigh too was favourably impressed , and wrote to Lady Byron after she had received a visit from him : I have today seen Count Gamba - which was very distressing for many reasons but quite unavoidable - he is a pleasing , fine looking young man & spoke with great feeling . The unfortunate Augusta was in one of her worst states of confusion . Augusta Leigh too was favourably impressed , and wrote to Lady Byron after she had received a visit from him : I have today seen Count Gamba - which was very distressing for many reasons but quite unavoidable - he is a pleasing , fine looking young man & spoke with great feeling . The unfortunate Augusta was in one of her worst states of confusion . She had loved Byron , but she had betrayed him , betrayed him not twice , as he had betrayed her , but again and again over a long span of time , fawning on his implacable wife , purveying to her in secret the unguarded letters he never suspected any eye but her own would see , feeding the stealthy fires of her animosity : and having betrayed him , she had grown to fear and almost to hate him . She had loved Byron , but she had betrayed him , betrayed him not twice , as he had betrayed her , but again and again over a long span of time , fawning on his implacable wife , purveying to her in secret the unguarded letters he never suspected any eye but her own would see , feeding the stealthy fires of her animosity : and having betrayed him , she had grown to fear and almost to hate him . She had dreaded his outpourings of affection for her in poetry that he thought would clear her and that only compromised her , and the headstrong folly that tempted him to write on ever more daring themes , teaching the world to guess what repentance and unrepentance preyed upon his thoughts . She had dreaded his outpourings of affection for her in poetry that he thought would clear her and that only compromised her , and # the headstrong folly that tempted him to write on ever more daring themes , teaching the world to guess what repentance and unrepentance preyed upon his thoughts . She had dreaded still more that he might return to England , overshadowing her again with spiritual and social peril . But this kind of return was what she could never have foreseen ... that he # should come back not voluble but silent , not beautiful but defaced , not in obloquy but with his praises ringing ! She could remember now his exciting laughter , his almost filial love for her , her almost maternal love for him . Above all she could remember the anguish of their parting , and how he had been ' convulsed , absolutely convulsed with grief ' . So love revived , and in its most sentimental form . While he lived she had lost touch in her perpetual alarms with what was best in him ; dead his memory became sacred to her . She felt almost as strongly as Hobhouse # about biographies . Quite apart from the divagations of her ' poor brother ' - so she constantly referred to him - there were a hundred reasons why it would be objectionable to have the family history exposed . Whatever latitude she allowed in the warmth of her kindly nature to others - or to herself - she believed implicitly in the moral code she had learned from her good grandmother , the Countess of She had no desire to see in print that her mother , who was to have been a duchess , had been involved in a scandalous and ruinous divorce , that her father , ' Mad Jack Byron ' , was a profligate and a bankrupt who had squandered every penny two successive wives had brought him and left the second on the verge of destitution , and that he had died a drunkard and perhaps a suicide , hiding in France to escape his creditors . It was no more pleasant for the Hon. Augusta Leigh to share this kind of story with the world than it would be for most 20th-century ladies moving in court circles and having children to be settled advantageously in life . She had lived down the rumours which had made the year of the Byron separation a nightmare to her , and she had also succeeded , though with an increasing sense of effort , in persuading her little world to avert its eyes from her husband , ' that drone ' , as # Byron called him , whose career of She had earned the right to be left in peace . Byron's fame was , of course , very wonderful , but it carried with it too many reminders of his terrible indiscretions - the writing of Don Juan , which she had never ceased to deplore , his shocking blasphemies like the Vision of Judgement , his making friends with the atheist known to her as ' that infamous Mr. Shelley ' , and his mixing with really low and horrid people such as the subversive journalist Leigh Hunt , whom on would never conceivably meet in decent society . She was most emphatically opposed to the production of sheer indelicacies , and that was the light in which she saw the proposed book by Dallas . Letters between a mother and a son - a son so outspoken and a mother so far from suitable to be paraded before the public ! And brought out by that seedy poor relation , Dallas ! Could anything be in worse taste ? Hanson , the solicitor , was naturally remunerated for his services , but all Mr Hobhouse's duties as executor were performed without reward . And now there was more trouble brewing with those unbearable Dallases . Dallas senior was detained in Paris by severe illness , but Dallas junior was full of fight and applying for the injunction to be lifted . He had gone to Byron's cousin , now 7th lord , and had got him to compose an affidavit to the effect that , whereas he had formerly been reluctant to approve the publication unless it had first been examined by the relatives and friends of his predecessor , he had now read the book and was content for it to be issued without that precaution . There were few things in Augusta's whole life , full of calamities though it was , that hurt her more than this contemptuous slight from George Anson Byron , whom she had loved with an unswerving loyalty , and had looked on as her intimate friend . Moreover , he was without the right to make such pronouncements : he had inherited nothing from her brother but his title , whereas she was not only of nearer consanguinity but the chosen recipient of his property . These , if she had only known it , were precisely the reasons why her cousin took pleasure in the opportunity of annoying her . Lady Byron did not like Augusta to have intimate friends , and in every instance where the occasion was granted her , she managed to find some excuse for bestowing , in whole or in part , those confidences which never failed to leave her audience agape with wonder at her magnanimity and Augusta's wickedness . George Anson Byron had seen enough of the poet's atrocious conduct as a husband to be aware that Augusta , so far from being responsible for the collapse of the marriage , had been Lady Byron's greatest support and comfort at the time ; but it had been deemed necessary all the same to enlighten him as to the suspicions in the background , and he had repeated them to his newly married wife . Their friendship for Augusta became rather hollow , and the news that Byron had left her practically all his money caused it to crumble to oblivion . Though Lady Byron knew perfectly well that Byron , as early as the year of their wedding , 1815 , had made a will in Augusta's favour , she had evidently not passed on that information ; and it came as an appalling surprise to Captain Byron that he had been left without the fortune that would keep up the title . ' Respecting the will ' , he wrote to Byron's widow a few days after hearing its contents , ' the very thought of it is painful to me . What Mary has said about it is too true . ' What Mary , the new Lady Byron , had said about it was written on the first half sheet of the same paper : My dearest Annabella , The more we consider the most prominent subject in your letter , the more we are convinced of the truth of that dreadful history connected with it . Questions about marriage and children were again included , as they had been at the 1911 and 1951 Censuses . The former had asked for marriage details for all married women , the latter for all married women under the age of 50 . The 1961 Census questions related to all women who were or had been married , and so repeated the enquiry made fifteen years earlier by the 1946 Family Census conducted on behalf of the Royal Commission on Population . The questions about children were the same as in 1951 , except that they extended to all women who were or had been married . It was not regarded as practicable within the limits of the census to include particulars about the date of birth of each child , as had been done in the specialised enquiry for the Royal Commission . The innovation at the 1961 Census , though the Family Census had previously included the question , was the date of termination of the first or only marriage . This enables statistical use to be made of their experience as regards duration of marriage and number of children in the case of women whose first or only marriage was terminated by widowhood or divorce after the end of their child bearing life . This is particularly important in estimating the trends in the size and pattern of families for successive generations over as long a period as possible , as the proportion of widows predominates in the higher age groups . In Wales and Monmouthshire the question on the ability to speak Welsh was included as previously . The question was first asked in 1891 , and was given its present form in 1931 . Each census since the first in 1801 has included questions about housing and households . In 1961 the scope of the question was wider than before , because of the great use of the data to the Ministry of Housing and Local Government and to local authorities . As before , the record made during the enumeration lists all buildings , residen- tial premises and temporary places of abode , and all households occupying them , as the basis of the enumeration is the household schedule . The number of structurally separate dwellings ( that is , houses or flats or other quarters built or adapted for separate occupation and forming a private and structurally separate unit ) was obtained as previously , together with the number of households with sole occupation or sharing such dwellings , and the number of living rooms occu- pied by each household . A new question asked about housing tenure , whether the accommodation occupied by each household was held by them as owner-occupiers ; occupied in connection with employment or as part of business premises ; rented from a Council ( or New Town Corporation ) or a private landlord ( if so , whether furnished or unfurnished ) ; or occupied on some other terms . The analysis of private households by size and various characteristics of their members has become increasingly important . Previously , while visitors were left out of this analysis it was not considered sufficiently important to attempt the task of bringing in the members away from home on Census night , which would be very laborious in the absence of information given at their place of usual residence ( n log n ) . But the need for a more accurate distribution of households by size as usually constituted had become more important by 1961 , and accordingly a new question was introduced , ... The information collected under this head will not affect the main count of population numbers , but will be used solely in the analysis of households by size and other characteristics . Sample . - At an early stage of the census preparations consideration was given to possibilities of reducing the amount of clerical work before ... We have held eleven meetings . We decided as a first step to seek information from a number of organisations and persons having an interest in the questions before us and at a later stage we arranged for publication of a press notice inviting anybody interested to submit representations . We compiled a list of the points which we thought were of importance , but we made it clear that the replies need not be confined to these particular items . As a general rule we did not ask for oral evidence , though we found it an advantage in certain instances . Appendix 1 gives a list of the bodies and persons consulted . The Department of Health for Scotland , the Home Office and the Ministry of Health submitted evidence to us ; officers of these Departments attended our meetings and have given us valuable assistance . On 23rd November , 1959 , we submitted an Interim Report . This dealt with two questions which arose from our terms of reference and which had been brought specially to our notice . First , we were asked to examine the risks attending the abuse of carbromal and bromvaletone and preparations containing these substances . The Poisons Board had already considered this problem but , in the absence of sufficient evidence that these compounds 4 . On examination of the evidence it became clear to us that carbromal and bromvaletone were examples of a number of drugs on sale to the public which were not appropriate for restriction to supply on prescription under the Dangerous Drugs Act , 1951 , or the Therapeutic Substances Act , 1956 , and had not so far been recommended for control as poisons . 5 . We recommended that , in general , any drug or pharmaceutical preparation which has an action on the central nervous system and is liable to produce physical or psychological deterioration should be confined to supply on prescription and that an independent expert body should be responsible for advising which substances should be so controlled . 6 . As an interim and urgent measure , the Secretary of State for the Home Department , on the recommendation of the Poisons Board , has We are glad to note the action that has been taken and we hope that arrangements will be made to ensure that , as other preparations affecting the central nervous system become available , they too will be brought to the notice of the Poisons Board , or such other advisory body as may in due course be appointed for the purpose , to consider whether there are sufficient grounds for restricting any of them also to supply on prescription . 8 . The second part of our Interim Report was devoted to anaesthetists who become addicted to the gases and vapours which they use in the course of their professional duties . We ascertained that the incidence of this irregular- ity was very small indeed . However , over a period of eleven years , patients' lives had been endangered in two known instances . We were assured by our expert witnesses on this subject that , with the apparatus at present to hand , the preliminary sniffing of the gases immediately before administering them to a patient was a recognised and necessary precaution . We accepted this . 10 . In view of the heavy and direct responsibility carried by every anaesthetist we were convinced that anyone addicted to the inhalation of gases and vapours should never be entrusted with their administration . The main tasks of the Rolleston Committee , whose advice we were invited to review , were to advise on : ( a ) the circumstances , if any , in which the supply of morphine and heroin , and preparations containing these substances , to persons addicted to those drugs might be regarded as medically advisable ; ( b ) the precautions which medical practitioners administering or prescribing morphine or heroin should adopt to avoid abuse and any administrative measures that seemed expedient to secure observance of those precautions . 12 . Through the system of records and inspection then in operation cases were brought to the notice of the Home Office at that time in which exceptionally large quantities of morphine and heroin had been supplied to particular practi- tioners or prescribed for individual cases . On further enquiry it was ascertained that sometimes the doctor had ordered these drugs simply 13 . It appeared then that in some circumstances dangerous drugs were being supplied in contravention of the intention of Parliament that a doctor should be authorised to supply drugs only so far as was necessary for the practice of his profession . Before deciding on measures to secure proper observance of the law , it was felt necessary to have some authoritative medical advice on various aspects of the treatment of addiction , ... The Rolleston Committee's recommen- dations in 1926 on the supply of morphine and heroin to addicts to these drugs and on the use of drugs in treatment are discussed later in this Report . They have , up to now , been included in the Memorandum on the Dangerous Drugs Act and Regulations which is prepared by the Home Office for the information of doctors and dentists . The Secretary of State was empowered , on the recommendation of a tribunal , to withdraw a doctor's authority to possess and supply dangerous drugs and to direct that such a doctor , or a doctor convicted of an offence under the Act , should not issue prescriptions for dangerous drugs . ( 3 ) It was made clear that prescriptions should only be given by a duly qualified medical practitioner when required for purposes of medical treatment . Nevertheless , average net family income was appreciably higher in families with several children than in those with only , many of which were incomplete families of younger parents with lower earnings , and of course with lower tax reliefs and no family allowances . The rise in net family incomes between 1954 and 1959 was great- est for childless couples , especially older couples ( probably because of the Compared with 1958 , the expenditure index for 1959 showed increases of 4 to 6 per cent for couples without children and those with one child , and much smaller changes for couples with several children . The quantity index , which has risen only slowly since 1956 , was almost unchanged in 1959 for couples with two or more children , but rose by 3 per cent in the older two-adult households and by 1-2 per cent for younger childless couples and couples with one child . As in 1958 , younger couples paid some 12 1/2 per cent more per calorie than the national average , and families with four or more children 19 per cent less . The only substantial change was in families with three children , for whom the index declined from 91 to 88 . Table 27 also shows the corresponding values of an index which compares the prices paid by different types of household for the commodities constituting the average household diet in 1959 . For all foods the range was from 3.6 per cent above the national average in younger two-adult households to 4.8 per cent below in families with four or more children , compared with +3.6 to -5.4 per cent in 1958 and +2.8 to -2.6 per cent in 1957 . As with the price of energy index , the only noteworthy change was for households with three children , in which the index fell by 1.8 to 97.5 per cent of the average for all households in the sample . The price ranges for milk , cheese , sugar , bread and flour were very narrow . For most other foods younger childless couples paid the highest average prices and large families the lowest , the price gradients being steepest for carcase meat ( +7 to -7 per cent ) , " other " fish ( +8 to -11 ) , " other " vegetables ( +9 to -9 ) and beverages other than tea ( +12 to -16 ) . Consumption by younger childless couples declined throughout this period , but that of the smaller families was maintained except for the slight fall in 1959 . In the largest families , particularly those containing four or more children , there was a tendency for consumption to increase between 1955 and 1957 , and thereafter to decline . Graduated scales of family allowances were introduced in October 1956 , and the welfare milk subsidy was reduced in April 1957 . 75 . The smaller families and the residual groups of households containing children reduced their consumption of sugar and of preserves , but in all other types of household a decline in purchases of the one was accompanied by an increase in consumption of the other . 76 . Most groups spent slightly less on potatoes than in the previous year , but consumption was maintained except in families with more than one child and in the unclassified households with children or adolescents . All groups except families with four or more children or with adolescents but no children consumed more fresh green vegetables , especially in the first half of the year , although most reduced their consumption of other vegetables . Purchases of quick-frozen peas and beans generally increased , but extreme- ly wide group differences persisted , the averages ranging from 0.1 oz. per head per week in families with four or more children to 0.9 oz. per head in younger two-adult households ; average consumption by older couples and other wholly-adult households was 0.5 oz. per head per week . The two latter groups consumed much smaller quantities per head of canned vegetables and canned and bottled tomatoes than any other group , and much smaller quantities of canned and bottled fruit than younger childless couples ; in households containing children , consumption of canned fruit fell off sharply with increasing family size , but there was no regular gradation in purchases of canned vegetables and canned tomatoes . All types of household benefited from the improved supplies and lower prices of fresh fruit compared with 1958 , but the increase in consumption was least in families containing children . 77 . Total bread consumption was virtually unchanged , although most types of household bought less white bread and more rolls and speciality breads than in 1958 . Most groups increased their purchases of puddings , cakes and biscuits , but obtained less flour . 78 . Regression estimates of the expenditure on different commodities attributable to the adult couple and each additional child in a selected group of households consisting of childless couples ( both under 55 ) and couples with different numbers of children were given for 1952-56 in Table 39 of the Annual Report for 1956 . The younger childless couples are broadly comparable in age and family income with the family households , so that differences in food expenditure may be associated with the presence of children . The relative expenditure per child declined from 1952 to 1956 , but rose in 1957 when the subsidy on welfare and national dried milk was reduced ; since 1957 it has again declined . Most of the average expenditure associated with a child was on cereal foods , potatoes and milk ; for fresh green vegetables , fruit , cheese , fish and carcase meat , the incremental expenditure was slight . 79 . Table 30 shows the energy value and nutrient content of the diets of households of different composition . The averages showed little change compared with those for the previous year , except for generally increased intakes of vitamins C and D . Since physiological requirements vary widely with age , sex and level of activity , comparisons between families of different composition are only apposite when considered in relation to needs . 80 . Estimates of the adequacy of the diets , assessed by comparison with allowances based on the recommendations of the British Medical Association , are also shown in Table 30 . In comparison with the previous year , changes were small except for higher estimates for vitamin C . In families with four or more children the levels of adequacy for all nutrients other than vitamin C decreased slightly . For this fairly small group , comparisons between different years cannot be made so precisely as in groups with a defined number of children . In 1959 the households in this group contained slightly more children ( average 4.64 ) than in the previous year ( average 4.53 ) . Their total food expenditure increased less than that in other groups , and they purchased more of certain foods such as fish , poultry , eggs , canned vegetables , fresh fruit , chocolate biscuits and breakfast cereals which , in general , are more expensive sources of nutrients than those foods of which they purchased less , namely dried milk , potatoes , carcase meat , sugar , bread , flour and oatmeal and oat products . 5 . Other forms of war damage payment made by the Commission are highway payments , clearance payments ( for clearing remains of structures from " total loss " sites ) and church payments . Although differing in certain important ways from the ordinary cost of works payments , the sums paid under these heads have the common feature that they are all payments in respect of works which have been carried out . To provide fuller information about certain types of dangerous occurrence , Section 65 of the Factories Act , 1937 , requires notification of certain specified occurrences to H.M. District Inspectors of Factories , whether or not they result in injury . Appendix 20 gives figures of dangerous occurrences reported in 1960 ; the types of occurrence which have to be reported are set out in the heading to the Appendix . The total number of dangerous occurrences reported during the year was 1,409 , an increase of 111 over the total for 1959 . However , the number of notifiable accidents associated with occurrences fell from 252 ( 31 of them fatal ) in 1959 to 245 ( 22 fatal ) in 1960 . The main increase in the numbers of occurrences reported occurred in the category of those due to the collapse or failure of a crane , derrick , winch or hoist , where there was an increase of almost one-third from 335 to 438 . The equipment takes two forms - an insulating guard on the jib of the crane , intended to prevent direct contact with the line , and electronic equipment with a sensitive probe mounted slightly forward of the head of the jib and with electronic assembly and warning apparatus in the driver's cab . Improved designs of both forms are being tried out at present . There is , however , a danger that workers will rely too much on fixed devices because they fail to recognise their limitations . It is therefore safer both in principle and practice to keep the worker away from overhead lines wherever possible , e.g. , by ( 1 ) re-routing the line , ( 2 ) putting the supply underground , ( 3 ) making the line dead ( after consultation with the supply authority ) , ( 4 ) providing barriers at a safe distance to prevent vehicles from approaching It is also important to remember that on lines carrying the higher voltages flashover from the line may take place without actual contact . A new type of machine has recently been developed for the automatic rolling of sole leather bends . The sheet of leather is placed on a sliding feed tray outside the danger zone and is then pushed forward between two platens , the upper one carrying a set of small rollers . The lower platen , which supports the leather , is raised hydraulically to bring it into contact with the rollers on the upper platen , which is then caused to make several horizontal oscillations so that the leather is rolled and pressed at the same time . The danger zone between the platens is fenced by a guard which is interlocked with the hydraulic valve and the press is also sequentially operated : the closing of the shutter starts the machine , the rest of the cycle following automatically . A new method of applying sand to the faces of green bricks has recently been developed . In the case of wire-cut bricks the column of clay from the pug-mill is carried by a short length of belt conveyor to the sanding plant . This consists basically of a vibrating hopper from which the sand is distributed to all four faces by a system of slots , scrapers and worms . The conveyor is broken at this point to enable the sand to be applied to the under surface of the column , which passes on through two pairs of vibrating rollers which embed the sand firmly in the surfaces and is finally cut into bricks at the wire cutting table . Of over 7,000,000 square feet of factory space built by the development corporations , about 20 per cent represents extensions built after the firms had become established . It is the policy of the corporations to charge full rack- rents or ground rents for their factories or industrial sites ; and rents vary considerably according to the demand for factory accommodation . The average gross return on established industrial estates ranges from 7 to 9 per cent of the capital expenditure on land , site works and buildings . Manufacturing industry affords employment to large numbers of non-manual as well as manual workers . An analysis made by Crawley Development Corporation in 1958 , after collating replies from fifty-eight manufacturing firms employing over nine thousand staff , showed that 5 per cent of the staff were classed as managerial and administrative , 11 per cent as technical or employed in research and 19 per cent as clerical . There is no reason to suppose that this pattern is peculiar to Crawley . The development corporations have aimed at a varied pattern of industry , offering a reasonable choice of employer as well as choice of occupation for men , women and school-leavers , with due regard to the industries already established in their towns . Inevitably engineering , including the motor vehicle and aircraft industries , predominates in all the London new towns since these are among the industries which have expanded most during the last ten years in the country generally . Of those at present employed in manufacturing industry in the eight London new towns about 40 per cent are employed in engineering and electrical goods manufacture - the proportion employed in both these groups combined varies from about 30 per cent in Welwyn to 85 per cent in Stevenage and 90 per cent in Hatfield . These figures are much higher than the national averages , and may be thought to indicate a lack of balance in some of the towns . On the other hand these groups offer fairly varied opportunities of skilled employment and are highly diversified as regards products , markets and methods of manufacture . Consumer goods industries such as the manufacture of food # and drink , tobacco , clothing and footwear are under-represented in the new towns generally though not in Basildon and Welwyn . The following table indicates the size of the firms , some of them occupying more than one factory , introduced or sponsored by development corporations in the new towns : The overall average for the factories sponsored by development corporations is about 170 employees per firm , and the average for each of the London new towns is roughly the same except at Hatfield , where it is much lower , and Stevenage , where it is much higher . The position at Stevenage is accounted for by the presence of one firm with 3,700 employees and two others with over 1,000 employees . About 32 per cent of all the workers employed in factories sponsored by the development corporations are employed by the eleven largest firms and about 23 per cent by the next group of firms employing between five hundred and one thousand workers . In factories sponsored by the London new town development corporations the proportion of female employees , expressed as a percentage of all employees , varies from 23 per cent in Welwyn Garden City and 24 per cent in Hemel Hempstead to 35 per cent in Basildon and 55 per cent in Hatfield with an average of about 30 per cent - rather less than in the country as a whole . The figures for Corby and Peterlee ( where the prime need so far has been to provide employment for women and girls ) are 82 per cent and 74 per cent respectively . Shopping provision in the new towns has generally been based on an estimated need of about eight shops for every thousand people , this being considered sufficient to allow for shoppers coming The figures for Corby and Peterlee ( where the prime need so far has been to provide employment for women and girls ) are 82 per cent and 74 per cent respectively . Shopping provision in the new towns has generally been based on an estimated need of # about eight shops for every thousand people , this being considered sufficient to allow for shoppers coming into the town from surrounding areas . Distribution over the town as a whole varies , the smaller towns tending to rely mainly on the town centres with a few " pantry " shops in the neighbourhoods and the larger ones providing neighbourhood centres of up to thirty or more shops at the heart of the residential areas , as well as small sub-centres in outlying Distribution over the town as a whole varies , the smaller towns tending to rely mainly on the town centres with a few " pantry " shops in the neighbourhoods and the larger ones providing neighbourhood centres of up to thirty or more shops at the heart of the residential areas , as well as small sub-centres in outlying districts . Some development corporations have sought to attract private investors by leasing part of the shopping area to companies experienced in commercial development who have undertaken the building and letting of the shops . But corporations have generally found it more satisfactory to build themselves , leasing the shops Some development corporations have sought to attract private investors by leasing part of the shopping area to companies experienced in commercial development who have # undertaken the building and letting of the shops . But corporations have generally found it more satisfactory to build themselves , leasing the shops to traders , with breaks in the lease to enable rents to be increased in scale with the rising prosperity of the town . This control over lettings also secures a balanced distribution of the type of shop , to meet the convenience of shoppers , and a reasonable degree of economic security for the individual shopkeeper . Timing has proved an important factor in the success of the shops . To many at the start may not provide a living for the traders This control over lettings also secures a balanced distribution of the type of shop , to meet the convenience of shoppers , and a reasonable degree of economic security # for the individual shopkeeper . Timing has proved an important factor in the success of the shops . Too many at the start may not provide a living for the traders , but too few may result in failure to attract custom and the habit of dependence on mobile shops , essential in the early stages , may be slow to break if carried The establishment of open markets in the town centres has helped to bring custom to the shops and the initial fears of some of the shopkeepers that their trade would suffer have proved un- founded . Shopping on two levels has been introduced in a number of towns and has added to the interest of the town centre The establishment of open markets in the town centres has helped to bring custom to the shops and the initial fears of some of the shopkeepers that their trade would suffer have proved unfounded . Shopping on two levels has been introduced in a number of towns and has added to the interest of the town centre . All types of trader have been encouraged , from the large departmental store to the small shoe-mender , with banks specially sited on corners or in separate courts to avoid breaking into the shopping frontage . As in the case of factories and industrial sites , the corporations' policy has been to charge full commercial rents for their shops and shopping sites . The cost of town centre development has been very high in some cases with ... All types of trader have been encouraged , from the large departmental store to # the small shoe-mender , with banks specially sited on corners or in separate courts to avoid breaking into the shopping frontage . As in the case of factories and industrial sites , the corporations' policy has been to charge full commercial rents for their shops and shopping sites . The cost of town centre development has been very high in some cases with large paved areas and pleasant amenities and decorative features . The gross return on capital expendi- ture on town and neighbourhood shopping centres ranges from 6 to 13 per cent. It is to their successful industries and commercial development that the corporations must look to recoup the high costs of main sewerage and drainage , main roads and other special development expenditure . These services develop at their own pace in response to local demand , however , and little can be done to stimulate them . In practice it has not proved possible as yet to attract " head offices and administrative and research establishments including sections of government depart- ments and other public offices " on the scale needed " to establish the character of the town from the outset as one of diverse and balanced social ... Except at Hemel Hempstead , large office organisations have until quite recently shown little interest in the new towns , probably because of the difficulty in the early years in recruiting suitable staff , especially junior staff , locally . There is evidence of greater interest today , with nearly half a million square feet of office space under construction - almost as much as the total area so far completed . This interest is likely to grow as employers become aware of the advantages of setting up offices in towns with a young and growing population and excellent schools and technical colleges . Towards the end of the year the Minister wrote personally to some two hundred chairmen of companies with large offices in central London , drawing their attention to the opportunities offered by the new towns . The development corporations have provided office accommodation ( in addition to that included in factory premises ) in the form of buildings specially designed to meet the needs of particular organisations , and have also erected some buildings as a speculative venture . Despite some misgivings , these have readily let on satis- factory terms , including in many cases a break clause in the lease allowing for a future increase in rent to reflect rising values in the town . The development corporations have provided office accommodation ( in addition to that included in factory premises ) in the form of buildings specially designed to meet the needs of particular organisations , and have also erected some buildings as a speculative venture . Despite some misgivings , these have readily let on satisfactory terms , including in many cases a break clause in the lease allowing for a future increase in rent to reflect rising values in the town . More modest premises are provided on the upper floors over shops in some of the town centres for the small type of office organisation . Government departments with branches established or about to be established in the new towns include Her Majesty's Stationery Office at Basildon , the Meteorological Office at Bracknell , the Admiralty ( who have a research labora- tory at Harlow ) , the General Post Office and the Ministry of Transport at Hemel Hempstead and the Department of Scien- tific and Industrial Research at Stevenage . More modest premises are provided on the upper floors over shops in some of the town centres for the small type of office organisation . Government departments with branches established or about to be established in the new towns include Her Majesty's Stationery Office at Basildon , the Meteorological Office at Bracknell , the Admiralty ( who have a research laboratory at Harlow ) , the General Post Office and the Ministry of Transport at Hemel Hempstead and the Department of Local offices of the Ministry of Labour , Ministry of National Insurance and Inland Revenue are of course established or proposed in all the towns . Because of the abnormal age structure of the new town populations the number of children reaching school-leaving age , expressed as a percentage of the total population , has been and still is below the national average . Local offices of the Ministry of Labour , Ministry of National Insurance and Inland Revenue are of course established or proposed in all the towns . Because of the abnormal age structure of the new town populations the number of children reaching school-leaving age , expressed as a percentage of the total population , has been and still is below the national average . But whereas the national annual average will settle down at something like 1.4 per cent after the " bulge " has passed , in the new towns the percentage will generally go on rising ( in some towns into the middle seventies ) reaching levels of perhaps 2.3 per cent in some towns before it begins to decline . But whereas the national annual average will settle down at something like 1.4 per cent after the " bulge " has passed , in the new towns the percentage will generally go on rising ( in some towns into the middle seventies ) reaching levels of perhaps 2.3 per cent in some towns before it begins to decline . During this period , when large numbers of school- leavers will be looking for jobs , there will be relatively few retirements . For the most part therefore local employment can be provided only by the expansion of existing industry and the introduction of new factories , laboratories and offices , and the expected but not easily stimulated development of the service industries . Schemes for training young people in industry and commerce will be particularly important in During this period , when large numbers of school- leavers will be looking for jobs , there will be relatively few retirements . For the most part therefore local employment can be provided only by the expansion of existing industry and the introduction of new factories , laboratories and offices , and the expected but not easily stimulated development of the service industries . Schemes for training young people in industry and commerce will be particularly important in the new towns . As the Reith Committee foresaw , " perfect synchronisation of the movement of employing firms with the movement of employed people is not practicable " . For short periods over the years some of the London new town corporations have been able to offer a house or a flat at once to anyone eligible for one , but in the main house building has lagged behind the demand . As the Reith Committee foresaw , " perfect synchro- nisation of the movement of employing firms with the movement of employed people is not practicable " . For short periods over the years some of the London new town corporations have been able to offer a house or a flat at once to anyone # eligible for one , but in the main house building has lagged behind the demand . At the present time in most of the towns the waiting period has tended to grow , partly because the buoyancy of industry generates increasing demands , partly because in recent years the pressure on the building industry , the shortage of bricks and other materials , and the shortage of skilled labour , especially in the finishing trades , has made it difficult for corporations to achieve their full programme . At the present time in most of the towns the waiting period has tended to grow , partly because the # buoyancy of industry generates increasing demands , partly because in recent years the pressure on the building industry , the shortage of bricks and other materials , and the shortage of skilled labour , especially in the finishing trades , has made it difficult for corporations to achieve their full programme . It is believed that about 60 per cent of the employees of London firms transferring their business to the new towns moved with them and were thus eligible to rent a corporation house . Additional workers are recruited through the industrial selection scheme by arrangement with the Ministry of Labour . This scheme is designed to ensure that vacancies in the London new towns which cannot be filled locally are filled as far as possible from people It is believed that about 60 per cent of the employees of London firms transferring their business to the # new towns moved with them and were thus eligible to rent # a corporation house . Additional workers are recruited through the industrial selection scheme by arrangement with the # Ministry of Labour . This scheme is designed to ensure that vacancies in the London new towns which cannot be filled locally are filled as far as possible from people on London housing lists , who thus become entitled to rent a house in the new town . Londoners not in housing need , # but whose departure from London may be assumed to release accommodation there , are recruited for jobs which cannot be filled through the industrial # selection scheme , and only as a last resort are people from outside London allotted new town houses . As a result , almost 80 per cent of the # houses let by the development # corporations in the London new towns have gone to Londoners , about half of whom are known to have been on local authority housing lists . Tables C , D and E of Appendix 16 give details of factories , shops and offices completed and under construction at the end of the year . Unless it is known at what oxygen potential a given material in the sodium coolant circuit will start to oxidise the cell can only be used as has been suggested above , as an oxygen concentration monitor . However , if a material oxidizes in sodium at a given oxygen potential the reference electrode could be held at that potential and oxidizing or reducing conditions in the coolant circuit for that material would be indicated by a negative or positive potential at the reference electrode . Thus for the specific case of niobium in a sodium circuit a corrosion indicator could be a reference electrode of sodium saturated and equilibrated with niobium separated from the coolant by a solid anionic electrolyte . A negative voltage from the reference electrode would mean oxidizing conditions for niobium and positive voltage , non- oxidizing conditions . The practical application of the above idea will involve considerable experimenta- tion before it can be realised . The first requirement is for an anionic electrolyte , which can be fabricated into suitable shapes impervious to gases and liquid sodium and which is neither corroded by sodium nor by sodium monoxide . Possible materials are zirconia stabilised with lime and thoria doped with rare earth oxides . Provided the temperatures at C and E are the same , thermoelectric contributions to the voltage should be zero . The probe extends out of the sodium stream through a close fitting thin walled T-Junction F and passes into the open via a water-cooled O ring seal G . The open end of the probe is sealed with a vacuum coupling H which also positions the +ve nickel conductor with respect to the sodium by circlips on either side of the seal I . Evaporation of sodium from the pool C is minimised by a close fitting cylindrical block of electrolyte J attached to the +ve nickel conductor by nickel circlips . Fixing and positioning of the probe relative to the coolant stream is effected by tie-bars of insulating material K joining the vacuum coupling H to the water cooled flange G . The probe can be evacuated and filled with inert gas via the tube L which must of course be electrically isolated after this has been carried out . It is not suggested that the above proposal will be successful but rather that it is worth a trial in the event of the inadequacy of some simpler method of monitoring the oxygen in a sodium circuit . The principal difficulty encountered by the author , in determining partial molal free energies by solid electrolyte cells of very stable oxides such as UO2 , MnO etc. was vapour phase transfer of oxygen by carbonaceous impurities in the blanket gas . This resulted in the oxidation of the -ve electrode and reduction of the +ve electrode which of course led to a loss in E.M.F. from the cell . In the above design the two electrodes are completely separated from one another so that this major source of trouble should not be present . The presence of 75 of bismuth-210 is equivalent to ingrowth over two half-lives ( ten days ) . Therefore after a further forty days , the bismuth daughter will be within 0.1 sources are required for use sooner than forty or fifty days after preparation , the lead-210 together with added lead carrier must be separated from the bismuth-210 daughter by ion exchange ( see Analytical Method , steps 4 , 5 ) before precipitating lead chromate . Knowing the time of separation and the activity of the lead-210 solution , the ingrowth of the bismuth-210 can be calculated . The absolute activity of the reference standards can be calculated from the known activity of the lead-210 solution and the chemical yield , but this calculation is unnecessary provided the same lead carrier solution is used to prepare the reference standards and for the analyses . Only the weights of the recovered lead chromate precipitates need be known because the concentration of the lead carrier solution cancels out of the algebraic equations . An effort was made to detect the presence of any radioactive impurities in the tracer by separating the lead-210 and the bismuth-210 by anion exchange . The 15b-counting of the lead-210 fraction began within a few minutes of completing the separation . The ingrowth of bismuth-210 was followed for ten days and showed no abnormalities . Any impurity in the lead fraction must ha- ve been well below one percent . Some separa- ted lead-210 was used to make reference stan- dards and as a tracer in recovery experiments . There was no significant difference between the- se results and those obtained using the original lead-210 solution supplied by the Radiochemical Centre which we concluded was radiochemi- cally pure . Rosenquist ( 4 ) showed that minute quantities of lead can be isolated from large volumes of solu- tion by coprecipitating the lead with a strontium sulphate . Lead and strontium form mixed cry- stals so that the more insoluble lead sulphate is almost completely recovered even if precipitation of the strontium sulphate is incomplete . Using ten milligrams of lead carrier and six hundred milligrams of strontium per liter , more than 95 experiment . Absorption of the beta particles is also kept to a minimum but the accuracy and precision of weighing the precipitated sources suffers . All precipitates were weighed on a semi-micro balance which had been calibrated with a set of certificated weights from the National Physical Laboratory . Complete chemical exchange between the radio-lead and the added lead carrier is necessary if the analytical results are to be correct . In the preliminary experiments , the tracer was added to a liter of effluent and immediately coprecipitated with strontium sulphate from hot solution . Chemical exchange was complete under these conditions ; but when the tracer was added to alkaline effluent and allowed to stand for several days before the addition of lead carrier , the recovery of lead-210 was as much as five per cent low when corrected for gravimetric recovery of the carrier . The presence and growth of algae in the alkaline effluent does not prevent the recovery of radio-lead under the prescribed conditions although some radioactivity remains on the algae until the metathesis has been completed by heating the mixed sulphates with three separate portions of dilute ( 1.25 normal ) sodium carbonate solution . The strength of the carbonate solution was chosen after experiments with lead tracer alone which indicated that less lead was A small manual coffee grinder is useful as the resin cannot be ground with a mortar and pestle . The sieved resin is washed repeatedly with distilled water to remove fines and then with hydrochloric acid to convert the resin completely to the chloride form . The 60-100 mesh resin is again washed with water to remove the acid and finally dried in air . The glass tube is 11 cm. long and 1 cm. in internal diameter . One end of the tube is drawn down to a fine tip and a B14 conical glass socket is fitted to the other end as shown in Figure 1 . The reservoir is a 50 ml cylindrical separating funnel with a capillary tap modified by the addition of a B14 cone to fit the glass column . The exact volume of the eluting agents must be found by experiment for each batch of resin using radioactive tracer ( lead-210 , bismuth-210 ) . A typical elution curve is shown in Figure 3 . Once these volumes have been established , the weight of resin used is also fixed . All available evidence indicates that the fractions containing lead and bismuth are free of cross contamination apart from the natural ingrowth of the daughters arising from the decay of lead . Polonium-210 remains on the column and does not interfere . Strontium does not form a chloro-complex and therefore passes through in the feed solution and the first wash . The resin is used for a single separation and then thrown away . In the first stage of the analysis , only the fraction containing lead-210 is collected . The lead is precipitated as the chromate , washed , slurried onto an aluminium counting tray , dried under an infra-red lamp , weighed , and set aside for five days while the bismuth-210 grows in . At the end of five days , bismuth-210 will have reached one-half of its equilibrium value and can be counted through an aluminium absorber sufficiently thick to stop the beta particles from lead-210 and the alpha particles from polonium-210 . During the first few hours the curve will be distorted if activity other than bismuth- 210 is present . These bismuth nuclides may include : together with their lead parents . All but lead-212 will decay completely within six hours . The decay of lead-212 will distort the observed activity for hour and a half days if it is present . If there is sufficient beta activity , the radioche- mical purity of the Bi-210 may be checked by observing the decay curve . The removal of lead chromate from the aluminium counting tray together with the bismuth-210 prior to the second ion exchange separation has been checked by counting the trays . Not more than 0.2 of the bismuth-210 remains on the tray after the acid wash . This loss is acceptably small for an analytical step when no correction for carrier recovery is possible . The completeness of the chemical exchange between the bismuth-210 and the added carrier was also tested . Two samples of precipitated lead chromate ( lead-210 , bismuth-210 ) were counted and dissolved in nitric acid in silica basins . The contents were evaporated to dryness with bismuth carrier and then taken up in The bismuth was recovered from the eluate as the phosphate . Results did not differ from those obtained by the more convenient method of heating the dissolved chro- mates in 2 N hydrochloric acid for fifteen minutes . The more rigorous method of securing chemical exchange was unnecessary . Lead-210 when present in effluent is likely to be found only at very low concentrations . Table 1 shows the decontamination factors obtained experimentally for ten radionuclides , accompanied in two instances by radioactive dau- ghters . The decontamination factor falls below 104 only for Ruthenium-106 and zirconium-95 with their daughters in the first stage , i.e. the lead chromate source containing the bismuth- 21 daughter . When the second stage ( the bismuth phosphate source ) is completed , the decontami- nation factors are exceptionally high . A known quantity ( approx. 1 x 10-2 15mc ) of lead-210 was added to 1-litre aliquots of different batches of typical low-activity effluent . The aliquots were allowed to stand for about seven days ( except where noted to the contrary ) before lead carrier was added and the analytical procedure begun . All stages of Calanus , for example , seem to migrate on some occasions while any stage may not on others . Such data cannot yet be rationalized . Where information is less extensive , however , it is possible to find some regularity in the observations . Thus in Euphausia superba from the Antarctic , the metanauplii remain in deep water , the later larval stages migrate diurnally , and the adolescents stay permanently at the surface . The migrating stages all come from 100-250 meters , and the time of their arrival at the surface is directly related to their swimming capacity : 3rd ( oldest ) calyptopis from 1800-2200 hr ; 2nd , from 2200-0200 hr ; and 1st , from 0200-0600 hr . Similar ontogenetic differences are apparent in Bosmina coregoni whose adults remain at the surface while the young migrate to and from a depth of 50 meters . Such permanent occurrence at the surface could of course be considered the extreme of a variable day depth . The effect of day depths upon the surfacing of various animals has been reviewed elsewhere . c . Anomalies . In spite of the variability of migrational behavior , some kinds of anomalies may be recognized . Vertical movement occurs in some forms apparently in the reverse manner to that commonly met . Such reversed migrations are known for Acartia clausi , A. longiremis , Nyctiphanes couchii , Evadne sp. , Oithona nana , Daphnia lumholzi , Stages 4 , 5 , and adult of Calanus finmarchicus , Diaptomus banforanus , and Cyclops bicuspidatus . An echo-producing layer , which the authors think probably consists of euphausiids , has also been described as , in part , regularly moving in a reverse manner . Most of these records are well substantiated and involve whole populations rather than aberrant individuals . But normal movements have been reported also for the same species in the case of five of these examples and for other species in the same genera for the remaining Evadne , Daphnia , and Diaptomus . Many forms sometimes migrate and on other occasions do not , but a few appear to remain permanently at one level . Considering the widespread incidence of migration in the The most clearly substantiated case is that of the copepod Anomalocera patersoni , which remains permanently at the surface . Among other copepods Rhincalanus gigas , Calanoides acutus , Microcalanus pygmaeus , Oithona frigida , and Centropages typicus are reported as showing no migration . The predaceous cladoceran Bythotrephes longimanus also remains at one level , about 10 meters down . In view of its well-known normal migration , the occurrence of Calanus finmarchicus in the summer at the surface in bright sunlight may justly be considered anomalous . This phenomenon has nevertheless been recorded many times , and such surface Calanus may be present in enormous numbers , breaking the surface into small circular ripples like It seems likely that a continuous interchange was taking place between the population at the surface and that in deeper water . A second group whose normal vertical migration is sufficiently well known to make daytime occurrence at the surface rank as anomalous is the Euphausiacea . There are numerous records of euphausiids swimming 2 . Mechanisms . The majority of vertical migrations undoubtedly result from active swimming although passive movement through the water has been suggested on various grounds . For example , transport in vertical currents resulting from temperature diff- erences has been proposed ; diff- erences in water viscosity after temperature changes have also been Downward movement may in some forms start as a passive sinking , especially when it occurs before dawn ; but this must almost certainly be replaced by the headfirst downward swimming observed in the field . 3 . Initiating , controlling , and orienting factors . The primary dependence of diurnal migrations upon changes in light intensity is beyond doubt . Yet in spite of a great amount of work , Loeb first suggested the importance of light as the governing factor but combined its influence with that of gravity . Later authors , in particular Rose , have proposed that light alone can provide an adequate mechanism if the animals have , and select by exploration , a zone of optimum light intensity . This view has been enlarged with a suggestion that both This resulted in units of much lighter weight than could be obtained with tubular constructions . The growth of the aircraft industry brought even greater emphasis to the need for lightweight compact heat exchangers . During the 1930's , the secondary surface plate-and-corrugation construction became established for aero-engine radiators , using dip-soldered copper . The air and engine-coolant passages were separated by flat plates . The air passages were packed with corrugated foil bonded to the primary plates to provide the necessary surface area for heat transfer . The narrower coolant passages were also packed with foil , chiefly to provide sufficient support for the flat plates to withstand the coolant pressure loadings . The introduction of the aluminium alloy dip-brazing process in the early 1940's was quickly taken up for aircraft heat exchangers and led to substantial weight reductions as compared with copper construction . This development coincided with the introduction of pressurized aircraft cabins and the demand for air-to-air cabin coolers . Although in this case the heat transfer coefficients on the two sides of the heat exchanger were of comparable magnitude , the use of secondary surface was still attractive , since the greater part of the surface area could be made up of fins only 0.006 in. ( 0.15 mm. ) thick . Furthermore , developments in the detail form of the fins made possible a reduction in the total surface area required as compared with the use of smooth continuous passages for the same thermal duty and pressure losses . The properties of compact form , low weight , and design flexibility thus developed found ready application on a much larger scale with the introduction of tonnage scale air separation plants . The basic method of construction is both simple and extremely flexible . Figure 3 illustrates the arrangement of a single passage . This can be extended in length and width up to the limit of manufacturing equipment available . The corrugation is machine-formed , thus ensuring a high standard of uniformity in height and fin pitch . Though that was not quite the phrase , for even if he could succeed Sir Charles he would , as an executive , be eternally differentiated from the Governors . Fairbanks managed the Governors beautifully , he knew more than they , he was cleverer than most , discreetly used their Christian names - but remained their servant . They had no office hours , however elastic ; their lives were spent in committee making decisions for others to execute on the basis of data laboriously The gin pahits , and now the beer with the curry , had their desired effect on us ; or rather , on Nigel and myself . Lee , I noticed , had asked for Coca-Cola . This rather surprised me from a young man who was otherwise so sophisticated . He was not , however , ostentatious about the matter . If anything , he had merely become a little more reserved , and much more polite . I thought to myself : ' A few years in the East , my boy , and you 'll drink - I 've seen your kind be- fore ! ' After the curry , I wanted only to go upstairs to bed . I had long since become accustomed , and now addicted , to an after-curry nap . Verena Holenstein Lee , however , showed not the slightest sign of fatigue . ' I wonder if you 'd mind if I took a bit of a look round , ' he asked Nigel . ' I don't sleep in the afternoons . ' Nigel , I must say , was very good about it . I knew how much he probably wanted to sleep himself . But , almost gallantly , he said : ' Not at all . I 'll show you . ' ' Oh no , ' young Lee protested , considerate as always . ' That 's not necessary if you want to rest , sir . I 'm sure I won't do any harm . ' Nigel laughed . I had not known he was so good-natured . But then , I suppose I had never given him similar cause to display such amiability . I slept soundly , and much later than I should . It was already after six when I awoke , and the sun was nearly setting beyond the west window . Downstairs I could hear the murmur of voices , and knew they were back . I wondered , as I wrapped a 6sarong around my waist , if Nigel at all resented being deprived of his afternoon sleep . And I said to myself : Oh , God , doesn't the boy ever relax ! He turned his gaze away from me almost instantly , but it had been enough to make me conscious of the nakedness of the upper half of my body , even of the matted grey hairs on my chest . He probably thought my appearance quite a breach of the social graces ; but , naturally , he said not so much as a word about it . ' We 've just had tea , ' Nigel said . ' Would you like the cookie to make you a fresh lot ? ' ' I 'd rather have whisky , ' I told him . ' Thought as much . Sun 's nearly below the yard-arm , anyway . Wouldn't mind a stengah myself . How about you , Harry ? ' So they had managed to come to the stage of using each other's Christian names , I noted . Perhaps Lee wasn't quite as reserved as I thought . ' Thanks , Nigel , ' he said . ' Just Coca-Cola . Although I 'd like to have whatever you have . I want to get to know the kind of life people lead in the East , you know . ' At this , I felt a return of the irritation I felt with him at times . Knowing Nigel , I would have been surprised if he had not made his usual ' arrangements ' . A bachelor himself , he knew well how to entertain his bachelor friends . He caught my look and pursed his lips in a quick little grimace of acknowledgement ; then raised an enquiring eyebrow in young Lee's direction . I shrugged a shoulder . Lee would have to decide about that for himself , I thought , and noticed that although he was looking at the other girl , he did so quite dispassionately , almost as though he was merely interested in the unfamiliar clothes she was wearing . And I thought to myself : He may be still too much of a ' new chum ' to see ' the beauty of the East ' . There was still an ease in our conversation , but its scope was restricted . I felt that I could hardly make the usual enquiries and comments about Nigel's various mistresses as I was accustomed to whenever I saw him , much as I wondered which of his girls was in favour at the moment . And I suppose he felt the same . We had only a few drinks , then decided to bathe and dress for a rather early dinner . He had one of the better Kashmir carpets on the floor . His pictures and curtains , indeed I suppose the entire furnishings , had been se- lected personally . The house was , as he occasionally proclaimed , his home - and he had made it as such . I doubt if he will ever leave Malaya , even when he retires . The country , and his mistresses , have come to mean too much to him . And , indirectly , this impression I had of him was one of several reasons why I had decided I should leave it - before , for me too , it would be too late . I used the excuse of our early start in the morning to retire as soon as it seemed prudent to do so , after the coffee and brandy , already anticipating the familiar pleasures awaiting me . After lunch two of the Prime Minister's grandchildren who had sat , rather intimidated by Ormston and staring at the Grinling Gibbons carving around the fireplace , rose gratefully from the table , leaving the two men together . A nurse came in , and asked the Prime Minister if he wanted to be helped out on to the lawn , but he waved her away impatiently . I don't mean just our direct military costs . I 'm thinking of the African Boycott which is already working up . I 'm afraid , Prime Minister , you 're not going to like the trading position when you see it . ' ' I never do , ' the Prime Minister commented wearily . The Chancellor was repeating an argument which he had already developed for an hour before lunch . ' It comes at a bad time , ' said Ormston . ' A singularly bad time . The Party 's very restless , you know . ' ' It is a sign of life - very encouraging ! ' ' The younger men - ' ' Which ones ? ' ' The younger ones like Gore , Vaughan , Hadley , Prebble , Lambert-Price - the New Africa lot - ' ' Do they confide in you ? Have you spoken to them ? ' ' Only at yesterday's meeting - they 're very restless , Prime Minister . They feel that it 's very old-fashioned - shooting down mobs of natives . They 're very much afraid that if the Opposition get a Commission of Enquiry some rather dismal stuff is going to come out . ' ' Young back-benchers are always restive when they 're bored , ' said the Prime Minister , and for the first time since his grandchildren left the table , he smiled . ' Why don't you give them something to play with ? ' ' They 've found their own toy , ' said Ormston , ' and this is it . They want to abstain next week . ' The Prime Minister continued in his flippant tone , ' Tell the Chief to give them a talking-to . ' The Chancellor closed his eyes , and then said , ' I think it 's gone beyond that , Prime Minister . They feel pretty strongly about Africa . They are greatly disturbed by the new and rather ugly image of the Party which our African policy is creating . On the whole , the country is still in favour of moderation and common sense . Melville has in a curious way made us look old-fashioned - extravagant - nineteenth centuryish - almost cranky . ' The Prime Minister looked puzzled , and said , ' Julia Drayford ? How does she come into it ? I can't follow these complexities - ' ' It isn't quite that . The whole business blew up from Melville's disgraceful indiscretion to Julia Drayford in Mrs. M'landa's presence . I don't know the exact chain of gossip or who told who what . As he turned aside his head , since he could not bear to look at her beautiful , pleading face , he was suddenly attacked by suspicion . ' You wish to marry someone else ! ' he cried in a voice roughened by jealousy . She sighed deeply , and looked away . ' Do you ? Do you ? ' he repeated , fiercely . ' If , ' she said gently , giving him a look that set his pulses throbbing , ' if I wished to marry some young gallant , do you think I would ask your help ? You would be the last man I would ask . ' Before he could collect his wits to reply to this , there was a bustle and confusion at the end of the room . Prince Doria had wearied of his toy and was packing it away in its painted coffer . The party was now preparing to see the tapestries , and in the general movement , Vittoria was separated from Orsini . Although neither of them wished to follow the sightseers , there seemed no alternative . As she was about to mount a wide and shallow flight of marble stairs , she became aware of someone watching her intently , and turning in that direction , she saw Olimpia , standing beside her admirer , Orlando Cavalcanti . The young man was bending over her with the assiduity of a lover , but the girl appeared to be more interested in her cousin's wife , whom she was regarding through half-closed eyes . This was a slight shock to Vittoria , who had forgotten the existence of the girl , and , up to this moment had been unaware of the young man's presence at the palazzo . ' Are you enjoying yourself , Olimpia ? ' she asked idly , tapping the girl's cheek lightly with her fan , in passing ; but she did not wait for the answer . Disturbed by vague uneasiness , she was wondering whether Olimpia had been watching her talk with Orsini . Surely she could not have overheard anything they said ? A moment's reflection reassured her on that point , for she was certain no one had been standing near them . However , something inimical in the girl's look put Vittoria on guard . ' Santa Maria ! These spying eyes ! ' she thought , bitterly . Doria was continually stopping on the way , to point out , with childish pride , objects of beauty or interest . Vittoria , on the fringe of the party , caught snatches of this information , which held no interest for her : ' ... now this sapphire ... I like to think it may have fallen from the dark hair of the Empress Messalina , as she crouched in terror in the gardens of Lucullus , awaiting the sword of the executioner . ' ' Ah ! ' exclaimed Farnese , with a snigger . ' The old cuckold Claudius had the last word , after all . He knew how to deal with an adulterous wife , eh , Orsini ? ' If the duke made any reply to this , Vittoria did not hear it . Now they entered the long gallery where they dispersed and wandered around , admiring and commenting on the glowing hues and barbaric splendours of the tapestries Doria had brought back from Lepanto . After a short interval , Orsini found an opportunity to rejoin Vittoria . ' We must talk further , ' he said in a low urgent voice . ' Where ? ' ' Be careful , ' she whispered from behind her fan . ' Olimpia is watching us . The young man with her is Orlando Cavalcanti , Francesco's friend . ' Orsini shot an impatient glance at the couple . ' The young man with the mole ? ' ' Yes , indeed . ' ' No matter . They are not looking at us . Now I must know , ' he whispered , ' what you meant , cara mia . Do you want your freedom in order to marry ? ' Before replying to this , she glanced hastily around , then spoke in tones so low that he had to bend his head to hear : ' I will never be any man's mistress . As to marrying again ... if I were free ... there is only one man I would wish to marry ... but ... he , like myself , is now bound . ' With a swift gesture she closed her fan and moved away from him towards the group in the centre of the gallery , leaving him standing alone , against that glowing , barbaric background , with a deeply thoughtful expression on his face . On a bright unclouded morning a few days after the visit to the Doria Palace , the cardinal's coach left the villa , lurched over the unpaved track and turned towards the ruined Baths of Diocletian . Vittoria , accompanied by her maid , Lucia , was on her way to the Accoramboni villa , ostensibly to pay a daughterly call on her father , actually to coax money from that indulgent parent to settle her mounting debts . Lucia was thinking how beautiful her mistress looked , and how cunningly the olive-green dress with its underskirt of rose-brocade fitted her perfect figure . Vittoria's thoughts were more complex . The sparkling society of the Doria Palace , the flattery of Orsini's obsession , the thwarted ambitions of her restless spirit , all threw into sharp relief the contrast of her grey life with the splendid one that filled her dreams . At the Villa Montalto she felt an alien , and although she had repeatedly urged Francesco to give her a separate establishment , he invariably pleaded his financial dependence on his uncle , who had built the villa for his family . He reminded her that they must abide by Roman custom , and dwell there with their relations . Her values were those of the materialist who assesses every human being in terms of fame , power and wealth . Francesco she despised for his dullness , his lack of initiative , his subservience to his uncle . Her husband's gentleness and amiability , his unselfish love for her , she regarded as signs of weakness . He was a futile creature who had not even proved capable of giving her a child . Whatever passion she had experienced in the first months of marriage had been ousted by contempt . She had never loved him . Her thoughts rushed to Orsini . Since the meeting in the Doria Palace , no word had come from him , and this silence oppressed her spirits with a weight of misgiving . She had , perhaps , demanded too much . The kiss in the garden had plumbed unsus- pected depths in her , and she knew that if she yielded to him , her passion could , indeed , match his . Every instinct urged her to surrender , for there was that in his nature to which her own had responded as it had responded to no other human being . Prudence , ambition and reason had held instinct in check , and they must dictate her course . There could be no compromise . For a brief interval she allowed herself the luxury of dreams . She began to imagine life at Bracciano , the balls and fe*?5tes , the conversation of poets and dilettanti . She visualized the pageantry of the tourna- ment , and herself on the ducal dais beside Orsini , placing a chaplet of roses on the brows This reverie was rudely ended as the coach gave a sickening jolt and came to an abrupt stop , nearly throwing the two girls from their seats . Lucia uttered a cry of alarm . ' Look , madonna , we are surrounded ! ' It was true . Men armed with pikes and daggers swarmed about them and a lean , swarthy fellow was peering through the window , grinning impudently . ' Santa Maria ! ' shrieked Lucia . ' Banditti ! ' Vittoria now realized that they were outside Santa Maria degli Angeli , and that except for a few beggars crouching in the doorway of the church and exhibiting loathsome sores , the area was deserted . ' They are not banditti , Lucia , ' said Vittoria , pointing to the badge on the man's shoulder . The words were clear . ' Beware my hug ! ' Lucia stared speechlessly at the golden bear ; Vittoria swiftly averted her head to avoid the impertinent glance of the retainer . Her thoughts at this moment were chaotic . The coach now turned in another direction , towards the wild and desolate region behind the baths . It was sparsely inhabited , dotted with fallow fields and terraced vineyards , and here and there jutted a brown outcrop of flower-wreathed ruins , a pathetic reminder of Rome's former greatness . In this region of Monti most of the public baths had been built in the time of the Caesars , but with the breaking of the aqueducts during the barbarian invasions the baths had lost their purpose ; they had become stone quarries and their precious marble had been burnt for lime . Now escaped criminals and bandits used these quarries as hiding places , to the danger of travellers in the district . As they lumbered past at a rattling pace , Vittoria could see a wisp of smoke curling above the fire of a gypsy encampment and a few tatterdemalion creatures gathered about it , cooking their frugal meal . These were left far behind . An old man belabouring an overladen donkey , and a withered crone appeared on the horizon , were overtaken and forgotten . Except for their escort , Vittoria and Lucia might have been the only living creatures on an empty planet . After the initial shock , Vittoria felt calm . She knew exactly what she wanted , and was prepared to take it without scruple , if she could . What she had forgotten in her self-absorption in her own schemes was that other people were equally absorbed in their schemes , which were likely to run counter to her own . This move today was a reminder of that fact . Whilst she automatically patted the hand of the agitated Lucia , her brain was working rapidly , and she decided that she must be prepared to counter Orsini's demands , difficult though that would be . She became aware that the pace was slackening ; now the coach stopped . The moment had come . Upon the ensuing interview the future would depend . Outwardly she was calm , but her heart was beating fast , and the palms of her hands were damp . Orsini's high-crowned hat with its jaunty plume blotted out the light ; his hand was on the door . Glancing at Lucia he said in French to Vittoria : ' Your maid ... is she reliable ? ' She shrugged her shoulders , and replied in the same language : ' Yes . But make it worth her while . ' ' I see . I know how to deal with people like that , ' and turning to the cowering Lucia , he spoke in her own language . ' Do you know who I am ? ' ' No , signor , ' she whispered . ' I am the Orsini . My word is law in Rome . ' Lucia was regarding him as a rabbit looks at a stoat . Thrusting his head farther into the coach , he said sombrely : ' Have you ever heard of a punishment called the cord ? ' She blanched and shrank away . Was there not a street near Sant' Angelo called the Lane of the Corda where criminals were hoisted by their wrists forty , fifty , sixty feet into the air , and dropped again and again , until their arms were wrenched from their sockets . ' You have heard of it ? The Orsini give that to traitors . There is no escaping the vengeance of an Orsini . We hunt a traitor down to the ends of the earth , and no power can save him ... or her . Do you understand ? ' ' Yes , signor , ' she faltered . ' On the other hand , ' he continued , giving her a keen look , ' the Orsini are generous to those who serve them faithfully . Remember that , my girl . ' Lucia was beyond speech . He turned to Vittoria , sitting erect , with flushed cheeks and eyes sparkling with anger . ' And now , madonna , ' he said smoothly , ' we will continue the conversation started at the Doria Palace . Be pleased to alight . ' ' I think , ' she replied coolly , ' I prefer to stay where I am . ' ' In that case , ' he reverted to French , ' I shall be obliged to lift you from the coach . ' Without answering him , she rose , and bending over the agitated girl , said softly : ' No one will harm you , Lucia . Remain here . ' Ignoring his proffered hand , she stepped from the vehicle . ' Will you be so good as to order your men not to molest my maid , ' she said coldly to Orsini . ' She is absolutely safe , ' he replied ; but he turned , nevertheless , to the man who had peered into the coach , whom he had addressed as Luigi , and gave him sharp instructions on the matter . Vittoria stood looking about her , breathing the scent of thyme . The land at her feet sloped away into a tiny valley beyond which , on the crest of a wooded hill-side , the ruins of a small temple were etched against the clear blue of the sky . He forgot time and place . He , the master , was gently led along erotic paths which he knew existed , but had never trodden . He learned how to use his hands , how to adore that body without haste , how to caress every inch with his mouth as well , to creep down along her smooth muscles till he lost himself in a rapture of kisses in places he 'd dreamed of , where life began to ooze and quickened his heart beat to a thunder . He looked at her . Head thrown back in a pool of hair , her blood-red lips parted and the beating of her heart in the full throat . Her mouth did things he thought no human being could stand without dying , but he went on living in an ocean of voluptuousness , that swelled and ebbed over him , under him , in him and through him ... He was having a ball ! He twiddled the TV set with shaking hands . She sat calmly on the bed smoking a cigarette . His face was white with two red blotches . Hers was flushed and lovely . O.K. teacher ! Was that any better ? You know it was ! You don't need teaching , only a little coaxing . He sat down and ran his finger down along her spine . Do you love me now ? Like yesterday ! I 'm extremely fond of you . The fact that you 're beginning to satisfy my physical wants does not change that . Before long you 'll give me the satisfaction that 'll set me rocking on my feet , but I 'll still be only fond of you . But you wouldn't marry me ? No . I 'm not your type . I 'd make you miserable . I mean that . I 'd very probably be unfaithful and that 'd kill you . Then I 'd be unfaithful too , to teach you a lesson . It wouldn't work . You 'd do it to spite me . I would never do it for that reason . To me it 'd be immaterial whether you 'd retaliate or not . You 'd go crazy if that situation arose . To observe the colour rise in her cheek and hear her breath come faster , to see the slight beads of sweat come out on her glistening skin and see her move with uncontrolled rhythm . To have her twist in an attempt to receive a caress he was purposely withholding , to hear her deep-throated moan of full satisfaction and feel her shivering , clawing surrender . Not so dusty , she might say afterwards , drawing at a cigarette . It 's a wow ! he said . She kissed him motherly : You just wait till you teach the girl you really love . He didn't protest any more to say he loved her because he knew it to be untrue . Instead he said : Will that be better ? She nodded : It 's man's nature to teach and to teach those we love is double pleasure . And she might add : And don't forget to leave the lights on . You lose half the fun when you fumble in the dark . She had many direct comments like that . Once she quietly pushed him back when he kissed her too fully and too soon : Oi , not yet , you oaf . What do you think my mouth is ? A billposter's bucket to be plunged in at random ? He 'd learned to laugh when something went wrong or the situation became ludicrous , as when they were both caught in the raw when he 'd forgotten to lock his door and Derek had walked in unexpectedly . They 'd just had time to nip into the bathroom and stood there shivering for fifteen minutes while their guest was smoking a cigarette waiting for him . At last Derek got tired and left . Just in time , erupted Charlie . If he 'd stayed any longer I 'd jolly well have asked him to join us . I 'm so darned cold I could do with two men . You perverted sex-maniac , you wouldn't dare . Show me what you can do and I 'll tell you if you need help . Once he came back to the subject of her marriage and asked her why she was going to marry her sculptor . Because I love him , of course . What do you think ? But he 's a lot older , isn't he ? I suppose so . What attracts you ? It can't be physical ? Of course not ! I love him for what he is - he 's so great I 'm a bit scared of him - a woman must be a bit scared to be really in love . That 's why you could never love me ? Correct , ducky ! You just wait till you meet the girl who thinks you 're a god . It 'll make you feel like one ! You think that sculptor 's a god ? Perhaps , in a way . All I know is that I need him . He kissed the heart beat in her throat . But how about the physical side ? You 're quite an erotic little beast ; can he satisfy that ? You youngsters always overestimate yourselves . You can take it from me that he can and does . But even if he were impotent I 'd still love and want him . There are sides to me you 'll never know . Don't you feel guilty living with me ? Often ! Don't you ? Mary had married her bill broker some time ago and he now shuddered when he remembered the clinical weekends he used to spend with her . He often used to try to imagine her reactions if he had once treated her as he did Charlie , but his imagination failed . The efficient little Mary would probably have called it a shocking waste of time and told him to get down to business ! Charlie , who was perfectly at home at all sorts of artistic circles , had amongst others wangled him a membership ticket for a small club for artists only . He did well . He got in touch with the woman Pete was passing off as his mother . Starmouth managed to win her confidence . It seems that she was an honest enough woman , only her mind wasn't as clear as it could have been . She showed him photographs . He found out that the name of her house - Grand Greve - was taken from a bay in one of the Channel Islands . One of the small ones . Sark , that 's it . The Caxtons used to have their holidays there . Starmouth went there . He dug out some people who remembered the family . In the end he pieced it all together . The Caxtons had two boys - Michael and Derek . Pete first met them at school . It was a good school I sent him to , one of the best . He was a boarder . He could always turn on the charm when it suited him . The whole family came to like him . The real Michael - he was the same age as my son - died of pleurisy when he was eighteen . Soon after that Pete staged his drowning . He was always a smooth liar . He invented some plausible story or other and threw himself on the Caxtons' generosity . They accepted him as a kind of substitute for the boy they had lost . Outside the family he began to pass himself off as Michael Caxton . The father was well-off and easy-going . He was easy meat for Pete . He sponged off him until he died just after the war . Then Pete had to look around for some other security . He found it - Dackson's Wharf , and Dackson's daughter . Mrs. Caxton's other boy , Derek , had been killed in the war . After her husband died her brain began to fade . At times she thought Pete was really her own son . My chance had come at last . I had to take it . I was going to smash him as he had twice tried to smash me . ( His eyes , wild and frightened , were fixed on Tong . Tong guessed that they did not see him . ) I told Starmouth to go at once and report exactly what he had seen to Dackson and his daughter . He did as he was told . Carol Carstairs , interviewed by Passon and Tong for the second time , began by agreeing that she could have been mistaken about the precise minute of Dackson's visit the previous Wednesday , and ended by admitting that he was in fact at least half an hour late for his appointment with her . " There it is , " Passon commented afterwards . " She is a business woman . " Another was the body fetching up on the mooring-hook - practically where it started from . " " And you finding out about the spy at the Marshams' , " Passon said . " Just a stroke of luck , sir , " Tong said . " Luck or not , Harry , it was the real turning-point for us . Must be true what they say . ' Tong can't go wrong ! ' " When Nick returned home he found that his mother was seriously ill . She had pneumonia . The sight of her youngest son , the doctor said , was the only thing that saved her ; it gave her the strength she needed to fight for life . Soon she was out of danger , but the doctor told Dan that she would have to remain in bed for some time and that thereafter it was essential that she should not have to exert herself . With Grace helpless Rose set up her own autocracy . Her squeaking , querulous accents were heard without inter- mission . They rose over the baby's inter- minable howling and were directed at everyone in equal measure . She was a poor and unpunctual cook . Normally indolent , she was now and again seized with unpredictable bouts of energy in the grip of which she swept through the house with a fury that disarranged Only the old man's room was too much for her . Once she put her head round the door , and Sam shouted : " You get right out of this , Rose . You leave me in peace . " Rose took one breath of the stagnant air . " You - you polecat ! " she screeched , and retreated without argument . Her re*? 2gime , hated alike by all the men , produced one extraordinary result . One day Fred met Nick at the front door as they were both about to enter the house . Fred grasped his brother's elbow . " Nick , I can't stomach this much longer . " " Nor me . What 's the answer ? Mum 's picking up , but she 'll never be her old self again . " " That First Flower 's driving me nuts , " Fred said . " I 'm going to put a stop to it . " " What with - arsenic ? " Fred fixed his small eyes on his brother , beckoned him to stand closer , and whispered into his ear the most unexpected words Nick had ever heard . " I 'm going to get myself married , " Fred said . The next day he brought home a woman in her middle thirties and took her straight to his mother's bedside . " Mum , this is Maggie . I 'm going to marry her , and I 'd like her to come and live with us . " Maggie was plump and plain with a pleasing smile , a placid nature , and a slow-moving but methodical mind . For twenty years she had worked in the bottling-store at the bre- wery , and Grace heard with astonishment that Fred had known her on and off for nearly as long . It was Nick who found the answer . " Only one thing for it , Mum , " he said , sitting on the edge of the bed and holding one of her hands in his . " Let Fred and Mag have the two upstairs rooms between them . Sam will have to come out of his kennel . He argued that it was the only place where he could be safe from Rose . " See here , Sam , " Nick began . " You know Fred 's getting spliced . " " Gone soft in the head , " Sam said . " Same as I 've always said , women rule the roost and no man 's safe from 'em . Ought to be a better way of doing things . Take trees . " He rattled on very happily . He propped himself on one elbow . " You can't do it to me , Nick . I 've worked this room up to my way of thinking like I 'd educate a child . This room and me understands one another . " " Sam , " Nick said firmly , " either you and me share downstairs , and we have Mag , or you stick it out up here and we all get saddled with the First Flower for ever . " Sam sank back on his pillow . " Oh , my God ! All right , you win ! " With that settled Fred was soon married . The First Flower snatched up her infant and departed , mut- tering sarcasms . The whole household listened to the dwindling screams of the baby with relief . Maggie soon proved her worth , and after a time Dan summed up the general approval by saying : " She 's as good a worker as you could wish for . She speaks our language . Mag 's one of us . " Nick and his grandfather shared their bedroom amicably . The old man , though fighting a grumbling rearguard action , permitted himself gradually to become a little cleaner and tidier . In his heart he was well satisfied to have Nick's company . When they were alone together he often explained all over again how shrewd he had been in discovering Alf Jesty's secret . " Imagine it , Nick , just that bit of information Fred picked up about Pete Jesty always touching his nose , and me remembering from that snap you once showed me that this Cax- ton had some sort of a scar there . Just an idea to begin with , mind you - then click ! and I 'd got it . That was smart work , say what you like . " " It certainly was , Sam , " Nick would agree , and go on to say with a touch of self-importance : " No wonder he tried to have me suffocated back last summer . Must have thought I 'd rumbled him right from the start . " By this time Nick was certain in his own mind that he had really seen Caxton's hand snatching at the prop holding the barge's hatch open , though he could never prove it , and it would not be of much use if he could . The nose is one of the most pain-sensitive organs in the human body - and Malone was discovering the truth in scientific detail . Kennan had only seconds left . He jumped forward to the far limit of his chain , his right hand chopping edge-downwards in bone-jarring force . The blow took the writhing thug a fraction above the boney knob which landmarked the cervical plexus , the vital nerve-centre which a long-ago Marine instructor had declared the pinnacle of unarmed combat targets . The thug collapsed with a whistling moan , and Kennan tore the Luger from the man's suddenly limp hand . There was no time for rejoicing , but the hard , firm shape of the automatic sent a new confidence surging through his body . Shouts , and the clatter of feet meant Goldie and Leo Grundy were on their way . Kennan pulled the manacle chain taut , and blasted two shots at the link which tied him to the ring-bolt in the rock . The nine-millimetre bullets sma- shed the chain as if it had been plastic , and , free , though the chain still dangled , he threw himself across the floor towards the entrance . ' Well , what do you think ? ' she scoffed , her brilliant eyes challenging him . He made no answer . There was nothing to be said . He lifted his glass and drained it , feeling the sweat breaking out on the palms of his hands . When at last he looked up she was standing right in front of him , smiling as if nothing had happened ! He could hardly believe it and blinked several times . ' Well , don't I get a drink tonight ? ' she asked boldly . ' Of course ... anything you like ' , he murmured , relief flooding over him . ' Kitty ... I 'm sorry ... . ' His throat went tight and words failed him . ' Aw , forget it ' , she said cheerfully . ' I 'll sting you for a double for being a naughty boy . How about the telly tomorrow afternoon ? ' He felt a glow of happiness steal over him . Everything was all right now , thank God . She wasn't going to break with him , after all . For the moment it was the only thing in the world that mattered . ' Of course , Kitty ' , he said fervently , his eyes misty behind their thick lenses . ' Well , I 'll be off now . See you tomorrow ... and thank you ... . ' ' So long , Bob ' , she said , waving her hand to him . Harry followed him to the door , opened it for him and stood outside on the step , looking up at the sky , where a few pale stars shone between puffs of light cumulus cloud . ' Nice night ' , he remarked affably . ' But they forecast rain for tomorrow . ' ' Do they ? ' Bone glanced up at the sky , his thoughts elsewhere . Personally , he didn't care if it rained cats and dogs and he knew that Harry didn't either . He waited , pulling on his gloves and adjusting his hat . ' Look , Bob , ' Harry began , after a brief silence , ' I don't mean to butt in , but if you take my advice you 'll 'ave no more truck with 'er . ' He jerked his thumb over his shoulder . ' That girl 's nothing but a load of trouble , I 'm warning you . ' ' Kitty 's all right ' , Bone contradicted flatly . ' It 's her boy-friend that 's the trouble . If we could get rid of him ... ' Harry nodded his grizzled head like an old hound . ' You 're right there , Bob ' , he muttered . ' But it 's easier said than done . Kitty encourages him , too . No work , no background , no regular money so far as I can make out . Probably on the crook . But there you are , the girl 's wild and headstrong . I can't do nothing with 'er . ' ' Don't worry , Harry ' , the other said quietly . ' I won't make a fool of myself . Kitty needs a good friend and I 'll always be that . ' He paused , hatred of Stevie Hewitt rising like gall in his throat . ' And I 'll find a way of getting rid of that chap , Hewitt , too . Leave it to me . ' ' O.K. , Bob , but watch your step . He 's a tough customer , mark my words ' , Harry said in a low voice . Bone half smiled in the darkness . ' I 'll remember ' , he said . ' Good night , Harry . ' ' Good night , Bob . ' Bone walked down the road , his cre*? 5pe-soled shoes making no sound on the asphalt surface . As he walked he concentrated on the problem of Stevie Hewitt . By comparison with the manner in which he had dispatched Henry Mansell the elimination of a little spiv from Brighton seemed an easy undertaking ... once he 'd set his mind to it . Back at the cottage he prepared his supper and ate it beside the fire in the living-room , his thoughts once more on Kitty . If she was really in love with Stevie Hewitt it was madness to go on worrying about her , he told himself moodily . Yet it was not as clear-cut as that . He not only felt his need of her but was equally aware of the necessity to help and protect her , even against her will . Tonight , for the first time , he had abandoned all pretence and shown her the honest desperation of his feeling for her . She had neither encouraged nor completely rejected him . In some perverse way their brief quarrel had forged a bond between them . No doubt she had every intention of keeping both of them on a string . On the whole he probably had a slight advantage over the young man , inasmuch as he had money to spend and she was a girl who had a healthy respect for the material things of life . Sentence Database L04-082 But he was still no sort of match for a young and virile competitor and he knew it . He turned away and begun to undress , shivering with the cold . His eye automatically glanced towards the panel which concealed the hiding-place of his secret treasure . For an instant he stood transfixed to the floor , his eyes unwavering as they riveted themselves on the wall . Was it his imagination or was the panel slightly lop-sided ? Leaping forward with a choked sound he grasped the oblong panel and pulled it out . The black tin box was exactly as he had left it . With heavily beating heart he reached out and lifted the lid . Everything was intact and he gasped with relief . He lifted out the heavy bundles of notes and knelt on the floor to count them . Of course , he remembered being in a great hurry to get that fifty pounds for Kitty ! Obviously he had been careless in replacing the panel , but the possibility of anyone having discovered his hiding-place gave him something of a shock . As he replaced the bundles of notes , he withdrew the tin box from its hiding-place and locked it inside the cupboard . It would be safer under lock and key for the time being than behind a piece of panelling which did not fit very sec- urely . Tomorrow he would buy a heavy padlock for the box and search for a new hiding-place . He lay in bed , cold and uneasy , unable to account for an instinctive sense of danger . When he closed his eyes it was Henry Mansell's face he saw , hovering above his head like a hideous caricature . The parrot nose and straight line of the mouth , the pitiless blue eyes that seemed to strip him right down to his abjectly quaking bones . The mouldering horror that had once been Henry Mansell taunted him now in the silent darkness . In a corner of the saloon bar of the Six Bells at Hawkeshurst that Friday night Hugh Mansell and Roddy Dowell drank their beer and waited . ' It 's too damn busy in here . We can't expect him to leave his customers ' , Hugh said morosely . ' Give him a chance , old chap . He 'll be over . Jim 's a most reliable chap when it comes to picking up a small tip . ' ' O.K. , Roddy , whatever you say . ' Hugh drained his glass and ordered two more beers . ' I 'm really beginning to feel it 's all a bit of a waste of time , anyway . I 've been collecting scraps of evidence and piecing them together for four months now , and the whole lot still doesn't amount to anything one could call concrete . ' Roddy puffed at his pipe , his eyes fixed on the white-coated barman . ' Oh , I think it does , Hugh . That 's why I want you to meet this bird . I think he fills in an important part of the background . Furthermore , dear boy , it confirms what we already know of your father's intention to leave the country on the night of October 14th . ' Hugh nodded . His face wore the melancholy expression that was habitual to him but his eyes showed his inner excitement . ' I know , but from the moment he walked out of here we haven't a shred of evidence to prove what happened . Obviously he met someone , either by chance or by arrangement . Whichever way it was , that person had a gun and he managed to persuade Father to drive along that quiet stretch of road ... . ' ' Miles off his proper route to Dover or the airport at Lydd ' , Roddy interposed quickly . ' And once there he was shot at close range and his money smartly filched . You know , whoever it was might have known of the existence of the suicide letter ... providing him with an almost unshakable alibi . ' Hugh was thinking of his uncle , but said nothing . After all , Julian had acted very strangely since the tragedy , always secretive , always reluctant to discuss his brother's death . It was impossible to associate him in one's mind with a cold-blooded murder but , in fact , Henry Mansell's death had saved the firm and Julian's future . Moreover he might well have been aware of his brother's intention to skip out of the country and passed on the information . ' I 'm sure you 're right ' , Hugh said thoughtfully . ' But whoever did it got clean away without being spotted . ' ' Easy enough along that stretch of coast road in winter , believe me ' , Roddy affirmed solemnly . ' He probably caught the next boat across the channel and has been lying low with the money somewhere . ' Hugh nodded . ' I realized that after my talk with Mrs. Lawford . There are a dozen countries where a man could easily hide up and change the money without danger . Unless we can get a definite line on him it 's hopeless ... . ' ' Something will turn up one day , you 'll see ' , Roddy said confidently . ' If we plug away at the leads we have ... . ' ' If only the police would do something ... ' Hugh cried out in exasperation . ' I 've put everything I know before them ... . ' ' No dice , Hugh . ' Roddy shook his sandy head . ' They 're bound to want pretty solid new evidence before they 'll agree to reopen the case . From their point of view the evidence for suicide is overwhelming . I spoke to a chap from the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions I know pretty well , and he agreed that the missing cash is a hell of a mystery . But as he quite reasonably pointed out the money could have been disposed of in London before your father left that evening . It wouldn't be unnatural for a man in his position to make provision for an unknown dependent or settle what he regarded as particular debts of honour before taking his own life . Also , logically , there 's nothing to show the money couldn't have been pinched by someone passing the car after your father was dead . Stealing from cars is about the commonest kind of crime in the book . There 's nothing that absolutely ties the missing money to the circumstances of your father 's death , that 's the point . Same with the passport . It 's gone and that 's that . It may turn up in a dustbin somewhere or at the back of a drawer . As far as the police are concerned there 's nothing to go on . In our own minds we may be pretty sure what happened , but that 's not good enough for them . That suicide letter did the trick - definite proof that your father took his life , backed by medical evidence and the fingerprint chaps . ' A little man with thin brown hair and a ruddy complexion came over and greeted them . He wore a short white coat . Hugh ordered drinks . ' I was sorry to read about your dad in the paper ' , the man said to Hugh in a thick voice which bore traces of a cockney accent . ' I was telling your friend how he come in here the very night he passed away . ' Hugh wasn't impressed with this ingratiating bar- man whom Roddy had raked up . He was seedy and middle-aged with small black eyes set close to- gether beneath heavily marked brows and a sly , crafty expression that failed to inspire confidence . ' He was hitting the bottle pretty hard , sir ... ' the man said in a loud whisper . ' Meaning no offe- nce ' , he added , looking at Hugh . " Why ? " he asked again . " I can tell by your voice that it means a lot to you , but I 'm damned if I can see the reason . It 's not as if you were all that fond of Alice . " He was interrupted by the arrival of the food and wine . When the pouring ritual was over he went on : If he didn't do it it must have been - " " Must have been who ? " Max prompted . I looked into his eyes and longed with all my heart to tell him , but I could not do it . As long as my suspicion remained in my head I could pretend to myself , in moments of optimism , that it was not true . If you 're right , you may be in serious danger from Hardy . Even if you 're wrong you 'll most certainly be in danger when you start handling a boat . " He picked up his glass and held it in both hands , looking at me thoughtfully over the top of it . " No , " he said at last . " I can't allow # # it . " " You can't very well stop me . " " I can do better than that . If we were to get married now I could come with you . " I looked down at my plate , not daring to let him see how much the idea appealed to me , reminding myself that he could only have said such a thing because he did not know the whole truth . " And I can't allow that , " I said . " Deadlock , " said Max . " No , it isn't . I 'm determined to go , and by myself , whatever you say . " " I was afraid of that . " He sounded resigned but none the less hopeful . " You 're a very wilful woman but I 'll change your mind for you one of these days . " You can see it any time you like , " he told me . " The sooner the better . If you can get to Bletcham this evening I 'll run you up there in the car . " " That 's very nice of you . " " Nice , nothing . I told you , I 'm mad about boats . Seven thirty do you ? I could meet you at the bus station . " " No , " I said , " outside your office . " I could not endure the thought of another wait at the bus station . He was there punctually . Dressed in a loud tartan shirt and abbreviated shorts he looked hardly more than a boy , a cheerful , good-natured boy . He settled me into the car with touching care and then drove like a fiend along the river road . Ten minutes later he stopped in a lane and helped me out with the same careful courtesy . " What sort of boat is it ? " I asked . " She , " he corrected . " She 's a converted life-boat . Not a very good one , but she 's sound enough and the engine 's fine . " Inside , she was untidy and grubby but roomy enough and well lit by two rows of good-sized windows . It was a long time before I got used to calling them portholes . The owner was a middle-aged man whose family had tired of the limited excitement of the river and now had their eyes on a seagoing boat . Clive - he insisted on being called Clive - haggled with him and within half an hour Sandpiper was mine for three hundred and fifty pounds . When all the business details had been settled and the owner had departed with my cheque in his pocket , Clive started the engine and gave me my first lesson in manoeuvring up and down the river and in and out of the other boats . It was a warm , still evening ; the plop of fish and the gentle putter of the engine were infinitely soothing after city noises , and I began to look forward to my life on the water . At last he pronounced me riverworthy and wanted to know when I would be moving in . Like Clive , he was enthusiastic about the engine and decided , apparently on the strength of its efficiency , that Sandpiper was fit to live in . I was more than thankful for his help when we had installed my things and the boat began to move . The river was crowded with flocks of sailing boats which swirled round us like gulls and there were two locks to negotiate , but Max seemed to know exactly what to do and at the same time kept me supplied " How on earth do you know all this ? " I asked him . " I used to play about in these things when I was a kid . And then I acted as guide on a river boat one summer , to keep myself going between terms at college . " It was the first I had heard of it , but that 's one of the things I like about Max . He has done so many things that there is always something new and exciting to discover about him . " You 're wonderful , " I said , meaning it . He pressed the tip of my nose with one finger . " That makes two of us . " It was about eight o'clock in the evening when we tied up almost exactly opposite Hardy's garden and went up on to the roof of the cabin to see what we could see . From this side , Rivermead was less forbidding ; it stood a long way back from the water at the end of a velvety lawn flanked with flowering trees and shrubs . To the right of the lawn , close to the water's edge , stood an ancient boathouse shrouded in wistaria ; it was built across a narrow backwater and there was a delicate iron staircase climbing the outer wall to a room above . " You won't see anyone tonight , it 's too late , " Max said and turned to go . " No - wait , " I put out a hand to stop him . The sun was no longer shining and it was dark across there by the trees , but I thought I had seen something move . A shudder , more mental than physical , ran through him , and his mind seemed to melt away into emptiness . His bulging eyes caught the reclining form of Heather , who was still repeating in sing-song : " ... I will not give in ... " He stared at her blankly , mouthing an incoherent gabble of half words . He slapped himself in the face and cuffed the sides of his head . Then by degrees the rotating objects slowed , and coming into focus took the form of the furnishings in Dan Brown's living room . He stood up un- steadily and looked about the room , trying to gather his wits . Outside the dusk was settling over Dow's Lake and the heights beyond were in silhouette , already a solid black . He bumped into a floor lamp and switched it on . Heather McNabb still lay on the couch , her body uncomfortably twisted and afflicted with occasional spasmodic jerks . He went to the kitchen for water and found Dan . Dan was lying on a long bench in the breakfast nook , his head bent upright against the wall . His usually animated face was expressionless and looked flat , as though his nose had been pushed back and his eyes and cheeks brought forward . He mouthed a low mutter , punctuated at intervals with a few syllables of a crazy and incoherent jargon . As Steve looked at him his mouth suddenly snapped shut , with jaws askew . There was utter imbecility in his blank face . Presently the muttering started again , and went on and on . Stunned and shaken , Steve drew a glass of water and went back to Heather . Half an hour later Heather and Steve were still trying to shake-off the last traces of hypnotic after-effects . For several minutes they had been facing each other across a low table , like two old convalescents thoroughly bored with each other through forced association . Then something like a zest for living began to come back to Steve and he squeezed her hand . Her face took on enough animation to produce a wan smile . Dan's low mut- tering was just audible from the kitchen . And Steve could see that as Heather recovered her senses and emotions she was growing cold and numb with shock . She had seen Dan , or rather the physical relic of him - the empty shell of flesh and bone , devoid of intellect and personality . And these had been his great qualities , so attractive to her . The Base Station had gone before , discharging its narrow plane of 4ementalating energy along the length of the Earth's imaginary longitudes , moving eastward like a knife-edged twilight in reversed progression . It had brought the First Stage in the Thetan pattern of conquest , the empty-minded receptiveness that prepared the way for the Second Stage . He rose from his breakfast-nook bench and came into the livingroom , where Heather and Steve stood aghast at his entrance . He came , almost falling forward in an ungainly shuffle , neck thrust out , arms dangling loosely . Then , abruptly , he drew himself up and walked on the very tips of his toes . He stretched his arms over his head and yawned agape , drawing-in great breaths that became great sighs of ecstacy . " They have come ! " he said reverently , gripping his hands together between his knees and leaning forward . " Isn't it a glorious thing ! Long awaited transcendent event , the exalted desire of all mankind through all ages ! The Kingdom of the Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes upward and shook his head slowly from side to side . A superfluous precaution for there was no other car abroad ; and no pedestrian to cross his path nor to wait at an intersection for the light to change . At his apartment he garaged his car and then stood listening in the night . Listening in vain . For the earth had lost its life-tempo , as the heart loses its beat in death . Deadly stillness , deadly portent ! Steve awakened early and switched on the radio , which he kept tuned to CBO. The set lighted-up but gave only a low buzzing sound . He had just finished shaving when it came on , with a flat voice repeating : " This is BBC calling ... this is BBC calling ... " After what seemed an undue period of repetition , the voice went on to describe the landing of the Thetan colony in Sussex , in all its obscene details . Then the radio went dead again , and Steve had no stomach for breakfast . It was a beautiful day , as firsts-of-June should be . Steve got out the car and traversed the same empty streets as he had the night before , to keep an appointment with Heather . Coming around the great mass of the Chateau Laurier , he braked to a screeching stop . A flying saucer was tilting and dipping over the War Memorial . There was a deep whirring sound , and a high-pitched hissing overtone that sang in his ears with an almost painful sharpness . He reversed and turned back on McKenzie Avenue . The Thetans must not see him ! He took another route to Heather's and saw two more flying saucers on the way . Heather was very anxious to visit Dan at once ; but Steve insisted that they should first discuss their situation , as far as it could be assessed , and to decide on what seemed to be the best way of meeting it . " The Thetans , " he said , " are presumably here to take charge , as it were , of the minds of the people - who are probably falling all over them- selves in their zeal to get their orders and to carry them out . Just what these orders will be , we don't know . Now , because of prior hypnosis we have es- caped Thetan subjugation . This time . But we no longer have any immunity . There can be little doubt that if the Thetans discover our mental independence they will promptly give us their hypnotic treatment . If we can avoid undue prominence , it may be that we can move about pretty freely without detection . If we can - well , then we may be able to promote our own interests . What those interests are , beyond personal security , I haven't a clue ; but , who knows , we may form the nucleus around ... " Now , to summarize what I think our course of action should be . First , to avoid the Thetans like the plague , for they must not find us out ! Second , to tread pretty warily among our own people , finding out just how much freedom we can take with safety . And third , to study these damned Thetans . We must learn all we can about them . There is just a hope that we may uncover some weakness , and find a way of fighting back at them . " Heather agreed , and suggested that they use Dan as a specimen demonstra- ting how the Thetan machinations had been working out . It occurred to Steve that this may not have been entirely an objective suggestion on her part ; but he thought it a good idea nevertheless . So they proceeded to see if the coast was clear . The street was quiet and deserted , and there were neither sight nor sound of flying saucers . So they ventured forth and made their way on foot to Dan's house . Dan came to the door at their ring but neglected to offer any greeting . He was deeply preoccupied , and it seemed that the ringing of a doorbell was to him a new and strange phenomenon . When he finally beckoned to them to enter , the action gave the impression of having been thought out and decided upon . Inside they sat down unbidden , while Dan paced the floor . He seemed completely unaware of their presence . They just stared at him , turning their heads like tennis spectators as he walked up and down , up and down . His whole attitude was a mixture of impatience pending an awaited communication and of a vague perplexity respecting his surroundings and the purpose he was to serve . Finally , being so obviously on their own , Heather and Steve tried to make themselves at home . Steve switched on Dan's powerful , world-wide radio and systematically turned the tuning knob through all the tuning points of the world's great radio They followed him to a city bus stop on Carling Avenue , where he waited . The bus stop was a deserted island on an empty street . But not for long , for soon pedestrians and cars flocked upon the Avenue from its many tributary streets . It might have been a normal business-day bustle , except for two anomalies . First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone walked , or drove , or waited as a person possessed of a single all-exclusive purpose . After a long wait a bus appeared and they followed the beaming Dan aboard , taking seats some rows behind him . Steve was beginning to find the stereotyped , flattish , happy faces very disconcerting ; and looking at Heather he found a welcome relief in her relatively long doleful one Then he would go back to Plato for a final spell of real days and would return to New York in late January or early February . Angelina might be a little sorry if we were not back for Christmas as arranged , but he consoled himself by thinking that he and Angelina would have plenty of time together in the future . And Heaven alone knew when , if ever , he would be back on Moon again , and able to do research at first hand into matters on which the future of everyone , including Angelina , depended ... The recovery of his balance was due to the fact that he was living , virtually without expenses , with the people to whom Moke had sent him : little people who regarded him as lucky to have descended from such economic altitudes . Tom Dreyfus had a job on the machines in the Secretariat ( Stamp Department ) while Sally sulked at home . They had been married for six years , but the salary raise , on the expectation of which they had done so , had not materialised . " Do you know , I had to send back our bedroom furniture in the second year , " she moaned . She had contacts in political circles , a school- friend of hers having married Lester Peron , a Mocrat Senator with a seat on the ( literally ) all-powerful Rocket Release Board . Hostettler Sometimes she took Harry around with her , but never her husband , a fact he accepted as inevitable . " I guess Sally made a mistake about me , " he said one evening , when he had been left to cook his own meal . All Sally's relations were 4makrodeb now , but Tom was a Static Mib , the middle-income-bracket equivalent to 4sub-lil on the lower . All Aristotle was excited at the time , not by the prospect of the U.S. President's visit , but by a great storm in the photo- sphere of the sun . A matter which on Earth would hardly penetrate beyond the minds of astronomers was of general interest to the Mos , doubtless because their habitat is not submerged beneath a deep natural atmosphere . One wondered if this greater awareness of the physical cosmos might with time instil the reverence which , on Earth , nature inspires , especially when one reflected that the rockets over which Mr. Peron's Board presided had it in their power permanently to warp the solar system . True enough , such ultimate weapons had not been used in the last few wars , but it seemed very probable that they would be in the next one , Moon and her allies being more inferior than formerly to W.C.U. in the weapons pronounced conventional . Lester was not home yet from his formidable duties and his wife , in the manner of middle-brow wives , romanced about him in his absence . " Lester was a country lawyer , and we were very small 4microdebs , weren't we , Sally " - here she had dropped her voice in homage to the economic system : that was reverenced - " when he thought we might get GO a bit better if he entered politics . Know how he did it ? He 's clever on the mouth-organ . So when he visited some craterlet on Face ( ours is an agricultural Back-Face area ) the cry would go up , as soon as he had spoken a few sentences of his speech : ' Cut the politics , Lester , give us something on your mouth-organ . ' Sentence Database That 's how he got the votes , that 's how we came through to 4makrodeb status and got all these lovely things " - she waved a plump hand towards her grand pianos , etc : at the same time a door banged - " but don't say a word about it , Lester wants his mouth-organ to be forgotten now . The time has come for him to be taken seriously as a statesman . " Peron entered , a large man , who had once been handsome but was now seedy-looking , a sufferer from stomach-ulcers . In the Back-Face tradition he wore , and kept on indoors , a fifty gallon hat . Harry was prepared for something unpleasant , for this was the Senator who had annoyed the United States by bragging how he had once won a trick from W.C.U. by threatening to loose off one of his rockets ( an admission which would scarcely help bluff to succeed the next time ) and , lately , by saying that if Mo land-troops had to come to the aid of the O.G.O. contingent in the Panama region , But privately he turned out to be as friendly as Mr. Wise the tube manufacturer , to have the same adolescent openness and freshness , though perhaps not the same maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer by training , and suspected that the points he made so sharply in international politics were as abstract to him as those a lawyer makes in a court of law . The motive would be the same in both cases , to serve this home of his , in which his heart lay . Here the rocket man's charm was disarming . Yet when the time came to leave , Harry felt as de- pressed as when he left Mrs. Halliday's office , exactly a month ago . If even Mo statesmen only did what they had to do to get GO on an expan- ding scale , and left the sum-total of their actions , and their lunar and earthly repercussions , to luck ( or to Moke ) , there was a vacuum where there should be a centre of trust , responsible for the maintenance The political life of Aristotle looked more and more like a masquerade of business interests in dis- guise which , far from attracting the allegiance of free men everywhere , could only repel them . Then what of the cultural life ? Did this per- haps nurture a genuinely civilizing impulse which might in time become social fact and counteract the obsession with economics which had grown up during the Moon's first two centuries ? At the centre of each circle stood personnel managers of corporations , together with professors and their filing clerks . The students had bought their college education forward and were now being bought forward in their turn . By comparing personal appearances with university records , the agents of the businesses would pick on young men and women who interested them , and contracts would be initialled at the end of the parade . But since starting salaries would depend on grade A or B in the finals next May , and since mating prospects would depend upon salaries , scholarship for these fine young people was closely geared to economic and biological ends which , essentially , were really means . So , seeing them revolve in circles , Harry had the feeling that Moke ( or what Moke consciously or unconsciously symbolised , any- way in Harry's mind ) had these splendid young people by the short hairs , and was diverting them ... Stepping out in their white shorts , they looked glad enough to be diverted , however , with the single exception of one worried little man-student who kept getting out of step . He looked as if nothing Moke and his minions could do to him would ever make him GO ; but the reason probably lay in elementary neurosis and not in some eruption from those deeper layers in the human psyche which are trans-economic . So once again the metaphysics were depressing , and in absolute contrast to the physical display . Mos have an un-American love of parades , and these young ones , on parade for jobs which they had to get to pay off their college bills , were naturally putting their best foot forward . ' Something 's up , ' said Lord Undertone , carefully casual . ' The servants are all on edge ... did you notice ? And the mules didn't seem to want to get off the raft . ' He peered as it were into the dark secrets of the jungle . ' Think there 's Indians about ? ' It was most certainly an eerie night , exceptionally brilliant and strange , for in the proximity of the mountains , whose presence I could almost smell , ' Impressive , ' Lord Undertone said , gazing reverently on the cosmic handiwork . ' All those stars . But I 'm a bit earthbound tonight , Trout . I 've got a queer feeling , like I always get when something sensational 's going to happen . There 's things lurking if you ask me . Might be jaguar , might be ... head-shrinkers . Hope I die kind of composed , Trout . I mean you can't imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking , no matter how bad it felt , the fire you know , or a lion munching , or arrows where it hurts most . Or can you . Look over there . ' He pointed to the shadows beyond the river . ' Something moved . ' ' Bottle-Foot , my lord . ' ' Bottle-Foot ? ' His lordship may have thought I had become unbalanced through fear . ' A character Mr Gilberto mentioned to other day , my lord . A being of whom the forest Indians are said to be mortally afraid , with a hoof shaped like the heel of a bottle . If your lordship will excuse me a moment ... ' Small , repulsive creatures they were , with black , matted hair and a striking resemblance to the shrunk heads we had gazed at recently ; and I have no hesitation in saying that they would have made an end of us but for an intervention so unexpected , so unusual , that only the necessity of rounding my narrative compels me to mention it . I had a distinct impression that the hut had recently been cleaned and prepared for visitors . Mrs Caine said we were to go no further unless and until we were sent for , confirming another impression that became more and more definite , namely , that she was in touch with an invi- sible source of authority . Sally and of course Mrs Septimus , for surely Mr Septimus stood in the same case as myself ? But was it so ? I allowed myself to entertain for an instant the idea , the strange , the unwelcome , the almost inconceivable idea , that Ariadne's arrival would be inopportune ; and with the idea came a somewhat vulgar impulse , which I refused , to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs Caine too and Mr Gilberto who would ... But all three were to the casual observation I permitted myself unruffled ; Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very thoughtful , but that was his habit . Indeed we were all invaded by a most tranquil mood . Even the Indian servants relaxed , knowing , so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and savage tribes never approached this region : at any rate they remained with us , perhaps for such protection as our presence , or Mrs But after what Mrs Caine had said it was never far from our minds that at any moment we were to receive a summons . I could see that Mr Septimus was impatient for it . This afternoon , then , we climbed a promontory , a mass of clean rock crowned with trees and bushes , that stood well out over the lake . NO ONE has ever satisfactorily explained how a single-decker Welsh bus could have got itself into orbit . Shooting up over the pass a bit too carefree , and becoming airborne ? Caught by a sudden gust of wind ? A combination of the two ? No one seems to know . But the fact remains that get itself into orbit it did . And a fine old fuss there was about it , too . Here are the known facts . On 10th July , the bus , the 2.20 from Dinas to Llangrwl , left Dinas at two-thirty-five as usual . Aboard , apart from the crew , were Mrs. Megan Thomas and her five-year-old son Cadwallader ; pretty little Morfydd Owen ; Mr. Stanley Hayball and Miss Ethel Yates , hikers from Birmingham ; Price the Provisions ; and the Rev. Edwards . Yes , the bus set out from Dinas . So much is established . Ifor Huw Evans , Propr. , watched it go from the windows of the Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. Very interested , Ifor was . For there was his garage hand , Dai Pugh , taking a tearful farewell of Morfydd Owen . Morfydd , who had until recently been Ifor's typist , but was now returning to her home town as a fully-fledged schoolteacher . " But I 'm only going fifteen miles away , " Morfydd was saying . " Not the end of the world , is it ? " " For me it is , " Dai said wretchedly , wiping his hands on his overalls preparatory to a last embrace . " You will not be remembering a mere garage hand when you are lording it over the Mixed Infants of Llangrwl . " " Silly boy , " said Morfydd . Though she could not help wondering whether , now she had qualified as a schoolteacher , poor little Dai was quite the man for her . A nice boy of course . But perhaps in the new world she was entering there might be boys equally nice , and with far more to offer . The conductor rang his bell . " Good-bye , Dai , " said Morfydd , smiling from the bottom step . " Good-bye , Morfydd . " He sought to enfold her in his arms . But he was too late . She was already up the bus steps , and the bus was away . And Morfydd Owen waving , unkissed , from the window . And Dai , on the pavement , knowing in his heart that Morfydd was leaving him as surely as she was leaving Dinas . So the bus set out for Llangrwl . But it never reached there ! Somewhere , on those fifteen miles of mountain roads , it disappeared from the earthly scene . The first intimation that all was not well came when a Mr. Isaiah Roberts , landlord of The Traveller's Joy , rang up the Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. to ask what had happened to their damn bus . " Left here all right , " said Ifor . " Two-thirty-five , on the dot . " " It 's supposed to leave at two-twenty . " " Who says so ? " " Your timetable . " " Don't want to take too much notice of those old timetables , " Ifor said , reasonably . " Start running punctual and where are you ? People get left behind , isn't it ? Very exasperating for one and all . " " And what are you going to do about it ? " Tendentious , Mr. Roberts sounded . " What do you want me to do ? Send out a sheriff's posse , is it ? " No sense of humour , that Isaiah . He banged down the receiver . Very uncivil . Dropped the mask , now , Ifor did . " Dai Pugh , " he bellowed . " Leap on your bicycle and scour the countryside between here and The Traveller's Joy . The two-twenty to Llangrwl has failed to complete her mission . " Paled , did Dai . For the two-twenty carried , for him , a cargo more precious than jewels . Though Mofydd Owen was , as he feared , departed out of his life , he still loved her dearly . Already , even as with trembling fingers he fastened his trouser clips , he was seeing her lying in some dreadful ravine , or beset by robbers , or being whisked off to Emergency Ward 10 . But even his imagination , luckily for him , did not visualise the awful truth - that Morfyyd Owen was already qualifying for the title of " First Woman to Enter Space . " " Where are we going , Mam ? " inquired little Cadwallader when his child mind grasped the fact that the green earth was falling away at a rate of knots . Where indeed ? Megan Thomas spoke sharply to the conductor , demanding an explanation . But nonplussed , the conductor was . A good man , mind ; knew his job . But out of depth in this particular instance . Fingered his ticket-punch nervously . Peered out of the window . Went and consulted the driver . " Where are we going ? " he echoed Cadwallader . " Damned if I know , boy , " said the driver . " But something very untoward has happened , if you ask me . " Immersed in the Dinas Advertiser , was the Rev. Edwards . Now he put down his paper , folded it , and glanced idly out of the window . Looked again , eyes starting from his head . " God bless my immortal soul , " he cried . " Never mind your immortal soul , " said Megan Thomas tartly . " Here we are traversing the heavens at the very moment when we should be running into Llangrwl bus station . And no one doing the first thing about it . " Stung , the conductor was . " What you expect me to do ? " he inquired , bitter . " Radio Flying Control at London Airport , is it ? " " Mutual recriminations will get us nowhere , " boomed the Rev. Edwards . " It 's all very well , " commented Mr. Hayball from the back seat . " But Eth and me wanted to be at the Youth Hostel before dark . " Morfydd Owen was silent . But she looked down at the fast-disappearing earth , and it seemed to her that she would never see her Dai again . And though half an hour ago she had regarded this possibility with fortitude , it now filled her with dismay . Quietly she began to weep ... Dai , meanwhile , was pedalling furiously on the road . Not a sign of the bus . He passed The Traveller's Joy . At last he caught up Mr. Roberts , walking very dogged towards Llangrwl . " Afternoon , Mr. Roberts , " he called , polite , as he shot past . His spirits were rising . He had seen no sign of an accident . Therefore Mr. Roberts must have been mistaken . He would find the bus safe and sound in Llangrwl , and his dear Morfydd quietly But disappointment awaited him . A restive queue of people in the bus station , waiting to be transported to Dinas . And when he went to Morfydd's house , all he found was Morfydd's mam , working herself up proper ... Getting dark , now . The conductor switched on the lights . The beleaguered passengers peered out of the windows . Little to be seen , only a few lone stars , and the distant earth brooding in her shroud of mist . Megan Thomas sat tight-lipped , nursing the sleeping Cadwallader . Driver and conductor peered ahead into nothingness . On the back seat Stan Hayball embraced his Eth . Morfydd thought of Dai . The Rev. Edwards , standing at the front , looked at his forlorn flock . " What about a verse or two of Cwm Rhondda ? " he suggested hopefully . They looked at him , sullen . His heart sank . If the Welsh found the situation too desperate for singing , then the situation , he realised , must be desperate indeed . But suddenly they were roused from their lethargy . Something was approaching , faster , faster , a tearing hurrying blur that was past and gone in a moment , followed by a great rush of sound . They waved frantically . But the jet aircraft was already miles away , swinging down to the darkening earth . " It passed me at fifty thousand feet , sir . It was climbing steadily . " Group Captain Llewelyn Jones , Officer Commanding R.A.F. Station , Dinas , looked keenly at the Flying Officer who had burst so unceremoniously into his office . " And what did it look like , Broughtons ? Some sort of rocket ? " Flying Officer Broughtons shuffled his feet . " Well , actually , sir , it looked like - like a bus . A single-decker , " he elaborated . Daggers , the Group Captain looked . " Broughtons , " he said silkily . " Didn't they teach you at Cranwell that buses are earth-bound creatures ? Aeroplanes fly , Broughtons . Buses crawl . " Very pale , Broughtons was . But determined . " It was a bus , sir . They 'd got the lights on . There were people inside . Waving . " Like gimlets , the Station Commander's eyes . " Did you see the indicator board ? " " Yes , sir . " " And what did it say ? Mystery Tour ? " Oh , very caustic , that Group Captain . But Broughtons stood his ground . " No , sir . It said Llangrwl . " Llewelyn Jones sat back in his chair . " I see . So you met a bus at fifty thousand feet . All lit up . Full of people waving as you went past . " Suddenly he crouched forward . " Broughtons , if I thought there were anything in Queen's Regulations to cover this , I 'd have you court-martialled . But I know there isn't , " he ended sadly . " I tried to read the registration number , sir . But it was getting dark . " He waited . But his commanding officer appeared to have forgotten him . He saluted , and left the presence , very crestfallen ... Time passed . The bus climbed , and went quietly into orbit . Time passed . The Rev. Edwards' pulpit remained empty . And so did the arms of Dai Pugh . How could they be otherwise , when his beloved was circling the Poles at three-and-a- quarter-hour intervals , regular as clockwork ? Time passed . Everyone said , " Pity about Megan Thomas , isn't it , " as though they didn't really think it was a pity at all ; as , indeed , they didn't . LOCAL BUS DISAPPEARS announced the Dinas Advertiser . But the London papers ignored the whole affair . Ifor Evans reported his loss to the police . But they only tut-tutted . " Lost a bus , is it . Very careless . " That was their attitude . Now if there 'd been a good old accident , they could have measured up the road and taken an interest . But losing a bus ! People were always losing things . You 'd be surprised , they said . So it seemed , for a time , that the whole affair would be written off as one of those unexplained mysteries , like the Marie Celeste . Then things began to happen ... But what about the voyagers ? you will be asking . Well , the Rev. Edwards had taken command . " Our position , " he said , " is somewhat analogous to that of a castaway on a desert island . Now what does such a person do ? He signals his position by lighting bonfires or hoisting a flag on a palm tree . And he tries to ensure a supply of food . " " Can't go lighting bonfires on this bus , " the conductor said firmly . " Contrary to the Company's Regulations . " " Of course not , " agreed the minister . " No , we have another way of signalling our position . The driver must sound his horn continuously . " Gave him a look , the driver did . " Where you think we are ? " he asked rudely . " Dinas High Street ? " " Do as I say , driver . " Very stern , the reverend gentleman was . So the driver peep-peeped as through empty space . " Thank you , " the Rev. Edwards said courteously . " Secondly , we must pool and ration our supplies of food , if any . " He looked at Price the Provisions , who was nursing a great basket . " Now , who has any food ? " he asked hopefully . Stared back did Price the Provisions , unwinking . " Mr. Price , I think you may be able to help us here , " said the Rev. Edwards . Price shook his head . " Intended for Plas Newydd , this lot is . Paid for , too . " He folded his arms protectively over the basket . Mutinous dog , thought the Rev. Edwards , who hadn't enjoyed himself so much since reading Treasure Island . " What have you got in that basket , Price ? " he roared . Quelled , Mr. Price pulled out a grocery list , pushed his glasses up on his nose , and began to read . " Six loaves , four pounds butter , two pounds marge , one tin pineapple , one York ham . " " Then we are saved , " cried the Rev. Edwards . Shyly , Morfydd Owen produced a block of chocolate . Though your wings and your scars are new , you may join us . ' ' I am Lily-yo . We three are humans . You are only flymen . We will not join you . ' The Captives grunted in boredom . The Chief Captive spoke again . ' Always this talk from you of the Heavy World ! You have joined us . You are flymen , we are human . You know little , we know much . ' ' But we - ' ' Stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' ' We are - ' ' Be silent , woman , and listen , ' Band Appa Bondi said . ' We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captive . ' Some things we will tell you . All who make the journey from the Heavy World become changed . Some die . Most live and grow wings . Between the worlds are many strong rays , not seen or felt , which change our bodies . When you come here , when you come to the True World , you become a true human . The grub of the tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So humans change . ' ' I cannot know what he says , ' Haris said stubbornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and Flor were listening . ' To this True World , as you call it , we come to die , ' Lily-yo said , doubtingly . The Captive with the fleshless jaw said , ' The grub of the tigerfly thinks it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' ' You are still young , ' said the Chief Captive . ' You begin newly here . Where are your souls ? ' Lily-yo and Flor looked at each other . In their flight from the 4wiltmilt they had heedlessly thrown down their souls . Haris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable ! ' You see . You needed them no more . You are still young . You may be able to have babies . Some of those babies may be born with wings . ' The Captive with the boneless arms added , ' Some may be born wrong , as we are . Some may be born right . ' ' You are too foul to live ! ' Haris growled . ' Why are you not killed ? ' ' Because we know all things , ' the Chief Captive said . Suddenly his second head roused itself and declared , ' To be a good shape is not all in life . To know is also good . Because we cannot move well we can - think . This tribe of the True World is good and knows these things . So it lets us rule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo muttered together . ' Do you say that you poor Captives rule the True World ? ' Lily-yo asked at last . ' We do . ' ' Then why are you captives ? ' The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs connected , making his perpetual little gesture of protest , spoke for the first time . ' To rule is to serve , woman . Those who bear power are slaves to it . Only an outcast is free . Because we are Captives , we have the time to talk and think and plan and know . Those who know command the knives of others . ' ' No hurt will come to you , Lily-yo , ' Band Appa Bondi added . ' You will live among us and enjoy your life free from harm . ' ' No ! ' the Chief Captive said with both mouths . ' Before she can enjoy , Lily-yo and her companion Flor - this other man creature is plainly useless - must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ? ' Bondi asked . ' What else ? Flor and Lily-yo , you arrive here at a good time . Memories of the Heavy World and its savage life are still fresh in you . We need such memories . So we ask you to go back there on a great plan we have . ' ' Go back ? ' gasped Flor . ' Yes . We plan to attack the Heavy World . You must help to lead our force . ' The long afternoon of eternity wore on , that long golden road of an afternoon that would somewhere lead to everlasting night . Motion there was , but motion without event - except for those negligible events that seemed so large to the creatures participating in them . For Lily-yo , Flor and Haris there were many events . Chief of these was that they learned to fly properly . The pains associated with their wings soon died away as the wonderful new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly flopping movements of flymen on the Heavy World had no place here . Alastair was a bachelor . All his life he had been inclined to regard women as something which must necessarily be subordinated to his career . Now he realised that he was entrusting not only his own life , but Geoffrey's as well , to a strange girl whom he had never met and on whom after no more than a couple of telephone calls he was prepared to place complete reliance . It was a novel experience . Alastair was quite unable to explain why he should feel so much confidence in her . Once again she checked back her instructions . It was obvious that she did not fail to appreciate the faith which he was placing in her and was prepared to accept the responsibility . " Good luck , Air Marshal , " she said gently . " I 'll be waiting for you at the Hotel Roma at six this evening - and I shall look forward to meeting you both at midnight . " They might have been arranging a supper party . Then she rang off . Alastair admitted that never in a not altogether uneventful life had he come across a girl who sounded so charming and appeared to be so efficient . For some reason the orderlies had forgotten to switch on the lights ; there was no colour - physical features were distinguishable solely by gradations of silvery greyness . Even the snow- capped summit of Mont Blanc , seven miles below , was not recognisable among the host of lower peaks . The screen of the air-to-air radar glowed . Occasionally minute spots flickered across its surface , but there was no permanent image . In the exceptional clarity he was even able to make a direct comparison between the radar image and the ground itself . Ahead lay the Plain of Lombardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the left , Milan . The directional angle of the scanner could be adjusted to cover any particular area within its range . Geoffrey turned the scale slowly to cover the ground immediately ahead . He was able to pick out towns , unrecognisable to the naked eye , obscured by the ground haze which even on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced at the speed recorder . It seemed almost incredible that the tiny white figure of 8.5 against which the needle was resting could really mean hundreds of knots . Now , as Alastair reduced the thrust , the pitch changed as the nose of the aircraft dipped slightly . The needle of the speed recorder swung gently through 8.0 , 7.0 , 6.0 before coming to rest at 5.0 . " We 're a bit ahead of time , " said Alastair . " We 'll run in on minimum engine power . " Geoffrey smiled . Alastair talked of running in when they were still more than four hundred miles from their destination . They were nearing Modena . Geoffrey focused the radar scanner on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to port . He was able to trace the course of the river ; he thought he could recognise the route of N12 , along which he had motored so desperately little more than twenty-four hours earlier . Since then he had flown to England , attended the vital conference in Bruce Denton's office , been whisked by special helicopter from the Horse Guards Parade to Boscombe Down , slept for six blessed refreshing hours and had now completed two-thirds of the journey back to the place where every indication pointed to Eve being held . Geoffrey set himself to consider the movements of the Bentley . It had passed him at the temporary bridge over the Tartaro at a few minutes past ten on the previous night . He worked out the distance on the presumption that its route had been through Florence and Rome and then across Italy via Foggia to Barletta . It came to just over six hundred miles . DARKNESS had descended like a curtain by the time they docked at Belleray . And though Guy , made nervous by Beryl's silence , drove at reckless speed to the Villa , it was quickly evident that the party was over . Piers came strolling out to meet the Deanes , and as soon as Guy had driven away , invited them casually to come to his flat for a drink . To Beryl , at least , this was anti-climax with a vengeance . She had expected to be met with violent reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling . But it did not take her long to realise that his mood was less pleasant than appeared on the surface . He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of asking Jack - as a representative of the Vallin family - to come over and make the presentation in her stead . " I caught him just as he was going to the airport to meet Blanche , " he said . " As a matter of fact I 'd asked him last night to deputise for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party too . They 're both here . " " I didn't know she was coming back from Barbados so soon . " Beryl said the first thing that came into her head . " Oh , she was due ! " And then he added in the same casual tone , " She 's not returning to her family . She 's going to live with friends of the bank manager , just this side of Belleray . " Mrs. Deane made a suitable comment , but Beryl said nothing . She was trying to sort things out in her mind . That beneath his unnaturally smooth exterior Piers was simmering with anger against her she had no doubt . Jack and Blanche were quick to sympathise , and to express their disgust at Sir John's abominable treatment of his guests . But Piers remained aloof , and when Beryl suggested having a second party , the following week , he poured cold water on the project . Everyone , he declared , had had a thoroughly good time , and it would take them nearly to next week to settle down again . Meanwhile Hubert would have betaken himself and his well- earned gratuity to his native village at the north of the island . It was all over and done with . For the time being Beryl was content to let it go at that , but she resolved to have it out with Piers when a reasonable opportunity presented itself . He must learn that he could not treat her with injustice and contempt , ignoring her explanations as though he were a schoolmaster and she a small , ignorant child . He gave her no chance of any private conversation that evening , for when Blanche and Jack left , he went with them . But next morning she insisted on his taking her out in the jeep - to find , if possible , Hubert and his relations , and tell them of her great disappointment at being held up in Balicou . With an air of resignation he sent Judy , his Boxer , to the back , and made room for her beside him . " Is that all you want to do ? " he asked , letting in the clutch . " No ; I want to make you understand just what happened about this Balicou trip , " she returned coldly . " I 'm a little tired of being treated like an ineffective imbecile . " " And I 'm heartily sick of being constantly called to account for my manners , " he retorted . " What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for you the best way I can by getting hold of Jack to make the presentation , I run the damned party to the best of my ability - saying the sugary things you ought to have been there to say - and all you can do is to find fault . " " It 's your superior attitude that riles me . " Beryl was scarlet with annoyance . " How I happened to be marooned at Balicou doesn't interest you in the faintest degree . You look as though it was only what you expected of me , as though I didn't care a hoot about letting Hubert and his pals down . " " As your employee it 's not my business to understand all the whys and wherefores of your actions , " he said stiffly . " Still less to criticise you . " " Oh , drop that nonsense , Piers ! Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with mounting exasperation . " Very well ! " He brought the jeep to a standstill in a rough path fringed and shaded by citrus trees . " If you want my true opinion I 'll give it . You made some sort of a protest to Graybury . I 'll give you credit for that . But you didn't press the matter because , very naturally , you were thoroughly enjoying Forrest's company in idyllic surroundings . " " How dare you say such a thing ? " she blazed . " For goodness' sake show a glimmer of reason , " was his equally indignant rejoinder . " You talk as though we were alone on Balicou ! " She avoided his gaze , and tried to ignore that last impertinent remark . " With four other people - " " Whom you never once managed to circumvent . " The mockery in his voice had deepened . " With all due deference , Miss Deane - come off it ! " She met his eyes then . She wavered , and at last said slowly , " If you must drag the truth out of me , I must ask you to regard it as confidential . " " My dear Beryl , don't tell me anything , if you 'd rather not . " He was clearly startled by her words . " But remember , it was you , not I , who started this conversation . " " I know . Absurd as it may seem , I didn't want you to think badly of me . " She turned away from him to fondle Judy , who , sensing something amiss , was nudging her in the endeavour to gain her attention . " The truth is that if I had absolutely insisted on sailing at the time originally arranged , Sir John would have had it in for Guy . You see , it was , apparently , through a mistake on Guy's part that we missed seeing the flamingoes our first morning on the island . " " What harm could possibly have come to Forrest through Sir John's nonsense ? " Piers could hardly have spoken with more contempt . A bully like that respects anyone who dares to stand up to him . " Beryl tried to suppress the thought that this was precisely the remark she had made to Guy . She said icily , " As you pride yourself on your knowledge of all the affairs of the island I needn't tell you that Sir John Graybury is one of Mr. Hewson's most important customers . " " So what ? You 're not trying to say that Hewson would victimise Forrest for behaving with ordinary moral courage ! He 's quite capable of telling Sir John to take himself and his business to an unmention- able destination . " " There 's a difference between what a senior and a junior partner can do , " was her quick reply . " What they can bring off ! I 'll admit that . But Forrest might at least have tried . He 's pretty spineless ! " " You think you could have carried more weight with Sir John ? " she enquired cuttingly . " For all your good opinion of yourself , I doubt it . He 's about as easy to push around as - as a grounded whale ! " He had to smile at that , but went on airily , " I 'd have made an attempt to show my lady-love that I put her interests before my own . She was tempted to laugh , but it was as though that barb still stuck in her quivering flesh . " You 've an answer - of sorts - for everything , " she said shortly . " Personally I 've no more to say , so I suggest we get along . " To her great relief they arrived at the cluster of little houses where Hubert had been living to find the old man stowing in leisurely fashion his few possessions into a ramshackle and incredibly ancient car , surrounded by innumerable friends and relatives . Their air of smiling somnolence showed them to have been guests at yesterday's celebrations , and their friendly welcome and warm sympathy , as she explained how she had come to miss the party , made her send a complacent glance in Piers' direction . What a fuss-box the man was , she thought impatiently , trying to worry her into the belief that her failure to appear at a function on the estate was a major error : And then she received a jolt . Old Hubert , standing beside her , his battered hat in his hand , his toothless mouth stretched in a wide grin , told her in halting 6patois that " 3Mistah Piers " had explained right at the start that " 3Mis' Beryl " would be 3" plenty , plenty sad " not to be back at the Villa in time . That it wouldn't be her fault at all . That she was a lady who , like her Uncle Charles , took the highest pride in keeping her word . " I could see 3anudder 3t'ing , " he went on in a lower voice , his sunken black eyes twinkling . 3" He powerful anxious , poor Mistah Piers . We all know how Balicou Island dangerous to all kin' o' boats , wid d'ose big , big rocks in an' out o' de water . He had almost entirely settled back into his old ways , even to reading law about two hours each day . Though he did not refuse wine , which the judge always had on the table at dinner , he did not act as though he found it necessary except in moderate compliance with his father's habit . Around that rounded rocky promontory where the white spray could be seen flying across the distance of a mile and a half , came the yawl under her full triangular sail , and to the judge's frightened eyes , so close to the rocks that it would be dashed against them with the lift of the next wave . " That boy ! That damned fool boy ! What does he mean by trying to come home now , even if he did promise ? What does time mean when weighed against the life of two human beings ? " Not until he was certain that the yawl had rounded the rocky point instead of being flung against the huge boulders did the judge empty his lungs of stifling air and refill them with part of that howling northwest gale . When the wind was on a rampage , as it was now , it could kick up a sea-sized commotion where it had a straight blow of eight miles down the lake . 3" Big blow , Judge , " re- marked Willie Kim as the wind billowed out and sucked in his baggy black blouse and pantaloons . 3" Blow like hell . Maybe by and by she blow some more . " " Hello , Willie , where did you come from ? " the judge said in mild surprise . " I didn't hear you . Do you see that fool boy of mine out there on the lake ? " 3" I see him . You don't need worry , Judge . Big wind like that can't drown good man . Bill is good man , and Bueno Buck is raised on lake . He no drown , too . Him , his mother throw him into water to make him swim when he is born . Maybe so Bill , he can swim that good , too . " The yawl , riding the high waves with an air that might have made an ocean liner envious , seemed prepared to make a safe though violent landing when there came a sudden gust of wind from the west . " My God ! " the judge cried out . " The boy is going to try to make a landing on the weather side of that pier ! He 'll wreck ! " Willie Kim was speechless , only his slant black eyes showing any emotion . With a quick shift of tiller , and at the same time jibbing the boom to which he had the stay rope fastened , Bill made the yawl recover . It seemed to the frightened judge as though his son would actually shoot the craft in under the outer end of the wharf . But by pressing the tiller hard over and at the same time dropping the small sheet of wet canvas , Bill cleared the corner of the pier by inches , and with the tiller still hard over , brought the yawl up against the waves " Willie , " the judge said huskily , " that was as pretty a piece of seamans- hip as I ever saw . That boy of mine seems to know how to do everything , when he wants to . " " 3Naw , " disputed Willie . 3" Just play in damn fine luck this time . He plenty smart though . " As they reached the pier , the judge on legs that were a little unsteady , they found Bueno Buck , now on the pier , leading the yawl toward " Hello , Dad ! " Bill called . " I hope you weren't worried . We 're going to drag the boat ashore and turn her over . She has a foot of water in her . I wouldn't be surprised if we broke all speed records on the way in . Yes sir , I am slightly wet , and Buck would be wetter if he had more clothes on . " With four doing the job and the waves pushing at the stern , the yawl was soon dragged out but before it was turned over Bueno Buck reached into the foot of water , tossed out a string of silvery lake trout and said - 3" Bill , he 's better man at catch 'em than Injun , Judge . You look . Little one more as fifteen inches . Maybe big one four feet , huh ? " " By George , that is a beautiful string of fish ! " exclaimed the judge . " Toss them on the grass and then we 'll all get hold and heave . " A few moments later the yawl was upside down , exposing its shallow keel . Bertram's face was grim . " You think it was the Snort , don't you ? " John gave a short laugh . " I did , " he said ; " but I 'd better stop thinking that now . Pericles is fitted with an identically similar one . " " So there you are , my dear . " Peggy 's eyes filled with tears . " It 's so unfair , " she said . " That little beast Robbie Munyard spent six months ashore while Pericles was refitting in the dockyard and now that she 's ready for sea he goes sick . Just because he 's an Honourable he can do what he likes . Anyway , why pick on you to succeed him ? " John didn't answer . There was no point in sharing his discomfort with Peggy . A submariner's wife needed to be spared as much as possible . Anyway the Parsifal affair was far too fresh in both their minds to be a comfortable subject for discussion . " It 's a command , " he said . We can do with the extra money . It 'll just about pay Jacky's school fees . " " What shall we do about this house ? - and Jill's school ? - and oh ! how I hate the Navy ! If I 'd known what it would be like I 'd sooner have married a parson . " He kissed her . " Parsons work on Sundays , " he said . " They 're worse off than submariners . You ought to have married that fat stockbroker chap and shared him with his three mistresses . Anyway it might be much worse . Pericles is a Portsmouth boat . She spends longer in harbour than any other submarine . Practically a shore job . Cheer up . " She wiped her eyes and reached for her address book . " I 'll write to those agents and try to get a flat in Alverstoke , " she said . " But I don't know what Jill will say about leaving her school . It 's a blessing that Jacky 's off to boarding school . And all the trouble you 've taken with the garden ! That little beast , Robbie Munyard ! " Having said her say Peggy manfully shouldered her burden and prepared to break up yet another home . In the ten years of married life this had already happened half a dozen times . Such is the life of a naval officer's wife . John's father had been a naval officer of the old school ; some of his rigid ideas had been passed on to the second generation . One of these was that an officer should join a ship , on taking up a new appointment , at nine a.m. precisely , dressed in the modern equivalent of frock-coat and sword . It would have been acceptable to all concerned if John had stepped into Fort Blockhouse clad in plain-clothes on the previous night , but ways instilled by martinet parents have a habit of sticking . So he put up for the night at The Admiral's Head , that famous Portsmouth hostelry , second only in historic interest to The George , unhappily destroyed by German bombs during the last war . Having deposited his baggage and unpacked his overnight-bag he went in search of a drink . The lower bar was empty , save for the lady known by all habitue *?2s as ' Seaweed ' , and a youngish , sharp-eyed man who was staring moodily into a gin and tonic . Seaweed's memory was prodigious ; her manner must have been worth a great deal to the proprietors of the hotel . She greeted John , however , with less than her usual cordiality and flashed a warning glance at him . Evidently the other occupant of the bar was not 6persona grata . If her memory was good , so was this stranger's . " You 're Commander Winter , " he said . " Have a gin ? " He turned to Seaweed - " Make it a large one , darling . I know the naval habits . ' Drink gin and call each other wallahs , what ! ' - as the Guards officer said on his return from a visit to the Royal Navy . Submarines , what . Youngest D.S.C. in the war , what ? Crawled inside a submarine casing to defuse a Jerry bomb . Should have been a V.C. What are you waiting for , darling ? The officer is obviously thirsty . " John fought back his inherited desire to snub the man . If he did he would have to leave the bar and either sit in the lounge or return to his bedroom . Seaweed sensed his embarrassment and came to the rescue . " You haven't introduced yourself , " she said with mock severity . " It 's a rule on these premises . No treating with strangers - that 's right , John , isn't it ? " " My fault entirely , " said the stranger . " It 's my conceited nature - I assumed that you both knew who I was . I 'm Ian Bawley . Does that mean anything to you ? " It did . Ian Bawley's name was printed at the head of most naval articles in the Daily Courier . " Oh , the Press , " said Seaweed . " Down here on business , Mr. Bawley ? " " A pressman is always on the job . " He held out his hand and John could not do otherwise than take it . " Pleased to meet you , Commander , " he said . " Now what about that drink ? " John nodded - he could afford to buy one in return and he was lonely . " For the sake of accuracy , " he said , " and I know how you newspaper people value that commodity ! - please don't address me as Commander . I 'm a Lieutenant-Commander . Perhaps we could drop the rank - such a mouthful ! " " You 're absolutely right , " said Bawley , as he pushed over his glass . " Fill it up , darling . Accuracy above all else . We pride ourselves about accuracy on the Courier . Ever known us bowl a wide about your Service ? Check and counter-check - nothing but the truth . Somewhat embarrassing , what ? " " How can the truth be embarrassing ? " John sipped his double gin with relish . It was his favourite brand , he was on the verge of a new chapter in his career , and his companion's attitude was challenging . Life at home and in Bath had been a trifle too comfortable and humdrum . He 'd never before met a pressman and found him curiously stimulating . " You 're a bit of a humorist , aren't you ? " said Bawley . " The truth is usually very embarra- ssing . You 're in submarines , aren't you ? " " You know a great deal about me , " said John . " It 's my business . I 'll tell you more . You 're going to take over command of Pericles . Am I right ? " " Who told you ? " " Little bird . Other half ? " John nodded . " On me . " Bawley shook his head . " All paid for by His Lordship , " he said . " Expense account . You 're a married man with a couple of kids . Can't go wasting your substance on a complete stranger . Set 'em up , darling ! " John flushed . " I 'm not in need of charity . " " Come off it , " said Bawley . " The proprietor of the Daily Courier knows what 's going on . If he doesn't mind , why should you ? " " I see . " John took the refilled glass and looked over the rim at his companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ? " " You misjudge me , " said Bawley . " You have nothing to tell me , yet . But we 'll be meeting again , no doubt , and then you will have . Regard this as a softening-up process , and have dinner with me ? On His Lordship , of course . " " On one condition , " said John . " Tell me who the little bird was . " " Can't you guess ? Whose portrait appears regularly in the shiny papers ? " " You mean Munyard ? " " Sure . Very useful contact , is our Robbie ; he gives us the gen and we give him the publicity . ' The Honourable " Robbie " and friend ' , what ? You know the sort of thing . " " You 'll get nothing out of me , " said John , " but you can pay for my drinks if you want to , as long as you keep off Service matters . " " Good-oh ! One for the grill-room , darling , and tell George to bring in the 6carte du jour . " Bawley was a man of his word . He kept away from Service matters , was an excellent host and a splendid raconteur . The evening passed all too quickly . As they parted in the vestibule the two men were well disposed towards each other . " Ever been to Fleet Street ? " asked Bawley . " You should . Next time you 're in Town give me a ring at this number and I 'll take you round the pubs where most of the work is done . " He held out a card . John took it and put it in his pocket . " Thanks , " he said . " If ever my missus lets me off the chain I 'll take you up on that . Ever been out in a submarine ? I 'll give you a spin round one of these days , if you like . You could write it up . " Bawley made a face . " Not in Pericles , old man . " " Why not ? " " Better ask Robbie Munyard . " " What 's he been saying ? " John was furious . The little squirt ! To go gassing to a newspaper man ! " Look ! " he went on earnestly . " You 're not going to write up Pericles in some way or other , are you ? " " What is there to write up ? " said Bawley . " There are forty-three submarines in the Navy - why should I pick on Pericles ? " John eyed him steadily . " It 's the Parcifal business , isn't it ? " he said quietly . " I don't want it to happen again , " said Bawley - " more so than ever since I met you . " " What did Munyard say ? " " The Snort - hull fitting fractured . " " Supposing I was to tell you that we 've had Pericles' entire Snort equipment removed and X-rayed and that it was as sound as a bell ? " said John . " Munyard didn't tell me that . But I must confess I 'm relieved . But it still doesn't do away with the possibility of faulty design . " He held out his hand . " Maybe I will take a trip with you one of these days , " he said . " In the meantime I 'll tell my editor that the story 's a dead bird . Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring - any time - knock twice and ask for Bawley , what ? " " I don't know when that will be , " said John . " I shall be busy for a while , cleaning up after Master bloody Munyard . " THERE were six submarines , lying in pairs alongside the jetty at Fort Blockhouse . Black and grimly businesslike they both looked and sounded , for all of them were rumbling as they charged their electric batteries . A light wind wafted the smoke of diesel exhaust in through the open windows of the Captain's house . It pervaded every room but neither Harry nor Madeleine Turton noticed its existence as they sat in silence over a substantial breakfast . Although usually a very talkative lady Madeleine respected her husband's silences , for she knew they betokened a worry of some sort . There had been many such breakfasts lately since the affair of Parsifal . Harry had lost a good deal of weight . His normal placid and steady-going manner remained , but she could see that it no longer came naturally . It is the common lot of all Squadron Senior Officers to experience such catastrophes as the loss of a submarine , though in peace time these happenings are few and far between . This is the testing time for all . The affair blows up into a national disaster and then when it is all over life must continue as before . During this period the Captain must present an unruffled appearance and carry on as if nothing unusual has happened . Harry Turton had written letters to the bereaved , had visited many in the locality , had been interviewed by the Press , had driven his surviving submarines a good deal harder than usual and in fact had applied all the usual specifics suitable for such occasions . He rode down to where I was waiting . I was thinking what a skill he had for reading my mind . " This would be as good a place for a hold-up as any , " he said , reining in near me . " Yes , " I said . " It 'll be here to- morrow as likely as not . " I paused . " Miss Jeannie 'll be on that coach , Dan . " " Yes , " he said . " I know . " " No harm must come to her , Dan . " " She 'll be all right . It 's the men who 'll be after that coach I 'm interested in , Johnny . " " I know . But if lead starts flying she might be in danger . " " That 's so . But I reckon they 'll be too busy shooting at us to bother with the coach and the folks in it . " " Maybe , " I said . " But we 've got to remember that girl all the time , Dan . I feel kind of responsible for her . " " Of course , " he said , giving me one of his strange looks . Then he turned the conversation . " Let 's ride over and have a look at the mining camp . After all it 's them we 're supposed to be working for , as well as the townsfolk and the agency detective . " With something of a start I remembered the man who 'd brought us into this business . " Maybe you don't know about Appleton , Dan ? " " Know what ? " " That he 's dead , " I said . I watched him because I was always fascinated by the way he looked when you tried to surprise him . " Dead ? " he said . " Yes . Dead . Shuffled out of the deck . Blasted down with a shotgun outside the Palace last night . " " Fenton or Somers , " he said . " Or the Town Marshal , " I added . His face was fixed , unreadable as a rock . " Let 's get over to the mining camp , " he said abruptly . He wheeled his horse back off the trail and up the slope leading to the ridge . I followed . From the top you could see something of the wild hill country that lay all round Gilburg Crossing . The air was fresh and clear and you could see far over west and north for many miles . The real high country of the Rockies lifted up in the distance like a pale water- colour drawing . Between us and that lay a vast stretch of hills , canyons , buttes and malpais . " The mine-workings lie north of the town , " said Dan . " If we head west we ought to cut the trail leading from Gilburg to the north . " So we swung west , making slow going over rough country , sliding on shale , climbing down into draws , circling a big mesa by a four or five mile valley , sandy-floored . It got hotter as the day wore on and we rested gratefully by a small creek where we watered the horses and drank enough to cure our thirst . An hour's riding brought us to a trail that we figured would lead to the miners' camp . We turned north into it and after about four miles it led into a small canyon which opened out into a wide shallow draw . Here in a dried-up creek-bed we found the miners at work . They were scattered over a fairly wide area working singly or in pairs . We didn't approach unchallenged . Just short of the diggings there was a roughly-built shack and as we got near someone inside bawled out , " If you come any closer , I 'll sure blow your whiskers off . " " Take it easy , mister , " I sang out . " We don't aim to come any closer and we 've got no whiskers so as you can see . Just you go and tell Nick Dowd we 've come to talk to him about what happened last night . " " Oh , " said the unseen guard . He blew a whistle then , loud and shrill . The gun barrel peeking out through a hole in the shack never wavered . We sat our horses , waiting . " Looks as though they 're expecting trouble , " I said . " Where there 's gold and women there 's always trouble , " observed Dan , shifting about in his saddle . He was never long on patience . I saw several men running down towards the shack . They were all armed with rifles . As the nearest of them came round the shack , his rifle at the ready , I saw it was Nick Dowd , still wearing his blue check shirt . He came up close , eyeing us suspiciously . " We 've come 2a-calling , " I said . " Can't see no reason for calling , " he said . " Still long as you 're here you may as well stay a while . 'Light an' come on in . " We dismounted and one of the miners who 'd come along with Nick Dowd took our horses off to water . We followed Nick Dowd into the shack . They 'd rigged up a stove of sorts and on it a huge blackened coffee-pot steamed . Other miners followed in at our heels . Nick Dowd found us a couple of boxes to sit on . A small man in bib overalls and a battered Derby hat fussed around the stove . " 2Ain't exactly the Ritz Hotel but we 've got our little comforts , " said Dowd . He introduced the men who 'd come in as Roper Smith , Shorty , Mick Golightly , Swede and the Sodbuster . This last was the little hombre in big overalls . Very soon he had tin mugs filled with hot black coffee sweetened with molasses for all and for us there were two plates of beans . " They gives you the wind , " said the Sodbuster handing them to us , " but it 's all we got as of now , apart from a few sacks of gold dust . " He winked at his partners . They all watched us as we ate the beans . Then when we 'd finished and I 'd rolled a cigarette the man called Shorty said , " You were saying when you came in that 2somep'n happened last night . " " Yes , " I said . " Something happened all right . After you 'd left the meeting , mister " - I looked across at Nick Dowd - " someone cut down William Appleton outside the Palace with a shotgun . " I paused and watched my words affect them in their different ways . " That 's sure bad news , " said Dowd , sombrely . " It 2jest about leaves everything wide open for Mr. Pell and his bunch , " observed Shorty . The rest of the men there said nothing but you could see they were hard hit . They were simple men who knew a lot maybe about digging for gold but were babes in arms when it came to dealing with owlhooters and desperadoes like Pell and Fenton and the rest . " I guess we 'd better hold onto the gold right 2hyar , Nick , " said the Sodbuster . " Yeah , " said Dowd dubiously . " 2Mebbe we 'd better . " Surprisingly Dan Maffrey came in at that point . " If you do , " he said , " you 'll be sure asking for trouble . They 'll be on your necks before you can say ' knife ' . It wouldn't be the first time they 've held up a diggings at gun point either . They 've done it before and got away with it . " " You 're 2durned tootin' , mister , " said the man called Roper Smith . " We 've got five rifles among us and a few six-shooters . But most of us 2ain't 2eddicated in shootin' . It 'd be a 2massacree , 2yessir . " " If you 'll take a chance on getting your gold to the bank , then we 'll abide by what we said at the meeting , " said Dan . " We 'll watch the stage out of reach . " I couldn't quite see how all this fitted in with Dan Maffrey's aim to avenge himself on the Fenton bunch but still it was a handsome offer so I chimed in too . " That goes for me , gentlemen , " I said . " If they do try and hold up the stage , it 'll be a couple or three of them , no more . I reckon we can deal with them all right . " Mr. Copthorne knew a way round by the side of the church where there was a small open outbuilding where the grave digger kept his spades and forks and tidying up implements . It might be open . It was . He entered , and seated himself in a huddle upon an upturned wheelbarrow . His curious headgear fell off . Strange things were going on in his bewildered brain . When a man was drowning and towards his last gasp it was scientifically supposed his whole life came up before him in some cinematic kind of sequence . Mr. Copthorne was on dry land in a church outbuilding , but this was happening to him now . He saw himself as a sulky , ugly , malformed , repressed boy , then a young youth . He saw himself refusing baptism according to the sect his parents belonged to . Walking out of the chapel later on . Continuing on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi- canery and corruption , the growth of the dea- dly decadence and absorption in debase- ment and Satanic debauchery . He didn't know what to make of it , but it was Mr. Copthorne all right . Perhaps he had been attending some kind of fancy dress do in London . Very strange his eyes looked . Mad , hunted eyes , as if the poor fellow had rocks in his head , so the verger described afterwards . " You 're very early about , sir , " he said , trying to speak normally . " Yes . I travelled down from London as the dawn was breaking , and the thought came to me I 'd like to take a look at the church . I 've never been inside . Very remiss of me , " said Mr. Copthorne . The verger led the way in . " The stained glass windows , sir , they date back to the fourteenth century . " There were few passengers on the plane and Gavin was quickly through the customs . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl and her luggage had disappeared and they were alone together . The porter brought Gavin's bag out to the taxi . " Just a moment , darling , " Gavin pressed her hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the flights back . " Gay went out to the waiting taxi , and then found that in the excitement of meeting Gavin she had left her sun- glasses on the veranda . She went quickly back to fetch them . Gavin and the girl who had got off the plane with him were talking . He was writing something in his pocket-book , with a sick feeling of despair Gay knew that of course Gay , sitting opposite Gavin on the terrace could hardly believe that she was the same girl , miserable , shy , who had sat at the little table for the first time a few days ago . Gavin raised his glass to her and smiled and Gay's heart turned over . " I 'd like to do that . " Gavin drained his glass and refilled it . " And then we 'll go for a stroll along the beach . A moon like this mustn't be wasted . " He gestured towards the bay where the full moon was just rising over the rocks , then laid his hand on hers . Gay smiled at him again , happy beyond belief , knowing that now Gavin was in love with her and her only , yet remembering for a second the kisses she had seen him giving Elaine . All that was part of the past , she would put it behind her . She would never be jealous again , would even take Larry's advice and look the other way if need be . " I say ! " Gavin was looking over her shoulder . " That 's a pretty girl ! " Gay glanced behind her , " Isn't she lovely , she 's French , a very well known model I believe . Gay , a little puzzled , went through to the bar . Doc and Lilyan were sitting just inside having coffee . " Come and join us and bring your boy friend , " Doc called . " No , Doc ! " Lilyan remonstrated . " They want to be alone . " " I 've booked a table at the cafe*?2 , " Doc said , " they are packed tonight so come and join us if you can't find a table for two . " Gay thanked him and walked out on to the terrace thinking that perhaps Gavin had bought a drink and taken it outside . She looked round scanning the tables , then caught her breath , a cold hand seeming to clutch her heart . Gavin was seated at a small table in a shadowy corner talking animatedly to Simone . As Gay watched he offered the girl a cigarette and lit it , his hands cupping hers in an intimate way . Gay stood irresolute for a moment , half decided to go back and join Lilyan and Doc , while she wanted to do no more than run upstairs to her room , knowing that Gavin although he had told her that he loved her , was already flirting with a girl that he had only met a few minutes before . Larry's advice flashed through her mind , but she turned away , giving a little gesture of hopelessness , knowing that her The others were all dancing and as Gay drew out a chair and sat down Gavin , without a word , swept Simone on to the floor . " It doesn't mean anything , " Gay told herself desperately , trying to understand Gavin's point of view and remembering the advice that Larry had given her , while she felt wretched beyond words . His behaviour was not only boorish and in the worst of taste but it was unkind beyond words . She fumbled with the cigarette packet which lay on the table not wanting to smoke but needing some action to help her control her feelings . " Come and dance , " Doc's cheery voice came as a lifeline and Gay got up quickly , mana- ging a smile . As he swung her on to the floor Gay saw Gavin and Simone go through the doorway that led down to the beach . Gay closed her eyes for a moment in disgust . She was fully aware that Gavin would make love to the French girl on the sands , and no doubt he would come back soon and after Simone had left expect her to accept his kisses on the way back to the hotel . Sentence Database P02-109 ----------------------------------------------------- " And that 's the man whom you have been eating your heart out over ? " Doc nodded towards the door . " You may consider him a man , I would say he was a mentally adolescent cad . " " Oh , Doc ... " Gay protested weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " " I 've only met him today but I think I can safely say that I know him a great deal better than you do . " Doc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing yourself away on a chap like that . You 're a fine girl , intelligent , and pretty , and I had thought you were sensible too . Don't make a fool of yourself over someone who doesn't care two jots for your feelings . If he behaves like this now what is your married life going to be like ? Hell . " Doc answered for her . " Just Hell . Never able to trust him out of your sight and having to put on a brave face and pretend that you don't mind whenever he flirts with another woman . He will you know , always , and you aren't the type who is tough enough to change him . " Gay nodded . " I know that you 're right Doc , I think now that I do realise that , and in any case , " she added a little sadly , " if I did change Gavin , he wouldn't be the same , if you know what I mean . " " You sound like Alice in Wonderland , " Doc gently mocked her , " and I 'm glad you 're beginning to see that you 're wasting your time on that chap . Now let him go and you won't have to wait long for the right man for you to come along . If I was thirty years younger and weren't married to the sweetest wife in the world I 'd marry you myself . " Gay laughed , Doc was so kind and nice and she hoped that one day she would be able to see the situation as it obviously appeared to everyone else . Doc asked Lilyan to dance and once again Gay found herself alone at the table feeling self-conscious and awkward , sure that people were talking about the way Gavin was behaving since they had seen them dining together . She opened her bag to get out her compact and saw Grace's letter . She drew it out and opened it , glad to be able to occupy herself . " So glad that you are having such a lovely time , dearie , " it ran . " Your cards are lovely . I rang up Miss Harland and have been over to sit with her father and do what I can for him so that she can get out to do her shopping . He 's getting on well but is pretty helpless still with his broken arm . No other news except that Elaine is engaged and going to marry a foreigner ... " Gay read the rest of the letter then put it back in her bag . Elaine was engaged , to the man she had spent so much time with at her party . That was why Gavin had come back to her . Everything was quite clear now , and to her own surprise Gay felt no heartbreak , rather a sense of relief now that she knew why Gavin had come to see her . Because she was second best . The others came back to the table , all of them making a fuss of her and at once she felt happier . Gay loved them for their warm sympathy , knowing that they were real friends , even if they were new ones . " That is a pretty dress , " Lilyan commented , obviously sensing Gay's distress and in a way that Doc , as a man , could not understand , knowing that Gay was as much ashamed for Gavin at the way he was behaving as she was hurt for herself . " I made it myself , " Gay tried to speak normally . Diana Wills often sat on the brand new seat outside the hospital gates and thought vagrant thoughts . At one time she had watched the workmen constructing the roundabout , which was to put St. John's Casualty Department out of operation - in theory , at least . She would think of her- self as a stranger in these parts studying these cross-roads . Which one to take ? " If I were a tramp I would simply blow a feather , " she decided , rather envying the gentle- man of the road his freedom of decision , and wishing life would sometimes allow serious-minded women doctors to blow a feather and follow its airy directions accordingly . " If I were needing a job I 'd go to London , of course , " she went on . " There are all sorts of wonder- ful jobs in London and I could take my pick , whereas in Yarmouth one has to know something about fishing and in Liverpool they 'd want sea-farers . I don't think I 'd go to Edinburgh un- less I was a Scot and wanting to get home , or perhaps a student studying to be a doctor , and I already know all about that . " She was engaged to Nigel , had been for two years . Sometimes they talked on the theme of " when we get married " , and then all was wonderful , and perhaps it had only been a slip of the tongue when Nigel had said , only last evening , " If we get married , old girl , you 'll have to stop that lark , I can tell you ! " She couldn't remember what they had been talking about or which ' lark ' she would have to stop , only that significant tiny word shouted into her very soul a horn of warning , and with it was coupled a disembodied fragment of information , which now took on an ominous significance : Nigel had been seen in Farlingham on an occasion he had sworn he had been standing in for Luke Parsons at his surgery in Little Phelpham . Now Nigel had every right to go where he liked during his off-duty periods when she was not free ; this much they had conceded one to the other . They rarely found they were off duty together , and the situation would have been intolerable had there not been some give and take about their relationship . So when Nigel had told her about taking Luke's evening surgery she had said , " Bless you ! I hope Luke is suitably grateful , darling . " " Oh , well , " he shrugged diffidently , " I like the work . One gets plenty of variety and it 's a change . " Nigel was the hospital's Junior Medical Officer . " You won't be free about nine , I suppose , to meet me for supper somewhere ? " she had asked hopefully . " Hardly likely , my sweet . Luke's surgery goes on for hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even though they 're standing on one another's toes , I 've got to see 'em . If I am free , though , I 'll give you a ring , O.K. ? " O.K. , " she had replied readily . So how could Nigel have been at the Load of Trouble roadhouse , dancing with a blonde at eight-thirty that very evening ? " No , " she told Phil Gubbins , a junior houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you saw , my lad . " " It was Nigel's car , anyway . NUF 121 . " " He probably loaned his car to somebody , Phil . He 's always doing that . " Young Gubbins shrugged . " I didn't see his face , Di , but it certainly looked like Nigel from the back . D.j. and all . Of course such as I couldn't afford to go into the Load of Trouble . " " Neither can Nigel , " smiled Diana . " He 's saving up to get married . Remember ? " " I remember , " quipped the houseman , meaning no offence , " but does he ? That blonde was something . " " Anybody I know ? " she smiled . " I think so . I got a good look at her . But if Nigel wasn't there it isn't important , is it ? " " No , " Di said immediately . " It isn't at all important . " But after that slight slip of the tongue on Nigel's part she had realised it was important enough for her to have remembered , and it was as though a red mist veiled her usually clear sight and made her think there was an abyss immediately ahead . " Nigel , " she had besought him , " you know that evening you took Luke Parson's surgery and there was a woman with a cyst on her ear ... ? " " 5Ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and kissed her on the mouth , an act of devotion he didn't over-indulge . " What about it , my sweet ? " " Well , " she laughed suddenly in an upsurging of relief , " that stupid Gubbins boy thought he saw you at the Load of Trouble . With a blonde , too . Imagine ! " Nigel was frowning . He looked distinguished when he frowned ; boyishly handsome at other times . " Gubbins ? Gubbins ? " he fretted . " Who 's he ? " Though Diana knew the name of every member of the staff , distinguished or not , Nigel often had to think hard to sort them out . " He 's the carrotty lad , isn't he ? " he now demanded . " What was he doing at the Load of Trouble ? " " Oh , he wasn't . His motor-bike had broken down outside and he noticed your car and then you dancing with this blonde . " " Really ? " Nigel cocked one eyebrow . " Actually she was brunette at the roots and I had a redhead on the other arm . He would have told you this , too ? " " No , " she laughed . " He didn't actually see you . Because it was your car I suppose he presumed it was you , all dressed up in " My white or my black ? " Nigel enquired . " Now I wonder which I wore at that particular surgery ? " " You are a fool , darling , " Di said happily . " I shall take great pleasure in telling that young man exactly what you were doing that evening . " " No , don't , " he said , after kissing her again . " I rather like to have the housemen think of me as a two-timing Don Juan . I 'm such a dull fellow , really . " " Dull ? " She couldn't believe it . Self-deprecation was not one of Nigel's usual attributes . " You need your holiday , darling . I only wish I could go with you ! " " Doctor Wills , if you 're making improper suggestions ... ? " " It would make me more interesting , I suppose ? " she enquired archly . " No , it wouldn't ! " he almost snapped , surprising her . " You sounded like some- body else for a moment there . It doesn't become you to behave like a - a tart , Di . " " Nigel - ! " she gasped . " I didn't mean to behave like anything of the kind . I was only joking . " " Well , don't . It 's miserable enough my having to take my leave in the autumn without you trying to be bright and gay about it . I 'm going with a shooting party . What else can I do at this time of year ? I can't ask you up because it 's a strictly stag affair . " " I know . I didn't expect ... " " Well , don't keep hinting , then . You wish you could come with me ; you hope I 'll miss you ; you can't imagine the hospital without me for three weeks , etcetera , etcetera ! " Her figure was small and exquisite , like a schoolgirl's still , and he admired her legs , which the male sex were inclined to regard first . " I would mind if you didn't " he told her grimly , and tugged her fiercely into his arms . " You 're right , pet . I do need this leave . I 'm bad-tempered and broody and going out with brash blondes . I don't deserve you . " " Darling ! " her voiced caressed him . " Moments like this make all the waiting worth while . When we 're married we won't have these explosions of emotion , will we ? " " No , " he eyed her strangely . " I wish we were married , Di . Like a patient wishes his operation was over . " Again her laughter trilled . " Marriage isn't as bad as an operation , Nigel ! " " Isn't it ? " he rose and smoothed himself down . " Ask any bridegroom-to-be . Anyhow , that particular problem isn't looming at the moment , thank God ! " Problem ... ? looming ... ? " Are we discussing a marriage or a burial ? " she asked , hardly believing he could be serious . " Surely marrying me isn't going to be all that bad ? If it is - " she laughed uncertainly - " you can have your ring back . " She loosened the half-hoop of diamonds on her left hand third finger and held it out to him , still playfully . Without a glimmer of amusement in his own eyes , however , he took it , looking moodily beyond her . " Perhaps it 's as well if you don't wear it for a bit , Di , " he told her . " But I want it ! " she protested . " It 's my ring . " " You just gave it back to me . " " I didn't ! I was joking . You know I was joking , Nigel . " " You shouldn't joke about serious things like engagements . " " Don't be such a baby ! " They were going to have an open quarrel any minute , and she knew it . Almost in desperation she appealed , " Will you meet me at the gate , four o'clock tomorrow ? " " Why ? " he enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring me up for tea , of course . I just thought . " " I 'll see , " he told her , and suddenly seized her in an embrace which really hurt . " Without your ring it 's just like kissing somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly , and kissed her again , somewhat startled to receive a sharp slap for his pains . " If I were somebody else's girl that 's what you 'd get , " she flashed at him , and so had left him , on her dignity and not seeing the look of admiration and revelation which had followed her slim young figure out of his sight . " Mine , " Nigel Lester had decided with a sigh of satisfaction , and then regarded the ring which he retrieved from his pocket . " At a price , " he concluded , with some bitterness . Thus had they parted the previous evening and now Diana was trailing up the gravelled drive to the hospital alone . Of course one couldn't say for certain when a doctor would be free during the day ; tea was served from four until five-thirty in the residents' common- room , which proved the elasticity of medical commitments . Something had cropped up which required Nigel's attention , she was convinced , or he would have granted her small request to be met at the gates . Sentence Database P03-189 They often had such a rendezvous , for there was just time to smoke a cigarette , if one walked slowly , between road and hospital . His mouth hardened , his eyes became steely . ' I see . ' Scorn lashed his words . ' I wonder you dared trust him to my care . ' ' Nicholas - ' ' Well ! At least I know the truth . Truth ! ' His gaze held hers masterfully . ' You wanted it so badly - at any price . I hope you are satisfied . ' And as he spoke , the thought of Philip lying in the other room filled him with a re- vulsion that was homicidal . Even in that , his hands were tied . He dare not precipitate what might well be another coronary . And in that second he put back his professional mantle , and said with such icy politeness , such withdrawn ' I will leave you the necessary pre- scription for the sedatives . You will contact your new doctor when you reach your parents' house . ' She watched him flick his fountain-pen from his waistcoat pocket , take out his # prescription pad , and # scribble on it . Then , with a gesture she knew so well , he tore off the leaflet and ' Good-bye , Sandra , ' he said with a deadly finality . Watching him go , unable to speak , she felt that part of her was leaving him . She couldn't hate him ... If only he would have con- fided in her , given some expla- nation . Now there was no- thing - not even friendship . She went back to Philip . But all she could hear were Nicholas's words : ' I love you - oh , you know that well enough . ' Love . She revolted against the word . Nicholas , Philip ... where was happiness , or peace of mind ? Philip put out a hand and grasped hers . He needed her . She would find solace in that fact at least . She had her truth . How much had built up from that first ideal , and how little joy , or satisfaction , it had given her . ' I 'm sorry , darling . ' He looked nervous . It had been hell lying there , knowing she was talking to Nicholas and wondering what they were saying . Sandra said instinctively : ' I told him I knew he was responsible for Beryl's death . ' Her eyes darkened in torment . ' Are you sure that she was telling the truth ? ' ' Good heavens , darling , why on earth should she lie ? Besides , it wasn't just her word . There was enough evidence , no matter how one might want to disbelieve the facts . ' Elation touched him after the cold wind of suspense . ' It will be interesting to see what comes out at the inquest . What his story will be . I reckon he 'll confine himself to the nervous origin of her recent illness . His notes will be truthful , but what he leaves out will matter most . ' Strange how just then Philip was so certain that Nicholas would never betray him . He loved Sandra too deeply to ruin her future happiness . Had ever circum- stances conspired so cunningly ? Philip's spirits soared . He was better ; he had made a miraculous recovery and Sandra would soon be his wife . The Devil , he thought , certainly looked after his own . Something in Sandra's attitude struck him suddenly , making him say : ' You can't forgive him for this - can you ? ' ' Forgive is an unctuous , patronizing word , ' she replied . ' I despise the deceit . The lies . ' Philip bristled . ' It was never our intention to have one of those carnival affairs , ' he retorted and in that second , he became the man of success exerting authority . Sandra watched her father's face pale . Philip , she knew , got on his nerves , but everything had gone over her head . It didn't really matter what was being said because she was no longer a part of it . The thought of Nicholas haunted her , the sense of loss crucifying . Her father's comment roused her as he said , ' I was not talking of a carnival . But I presume we shall be allowed to have one or two of our friends at the ceremony . ' He had long sensed injustice in the distinctions drawn between ordinary wage-earners and those self-employed . By the time his monthly salary arrived , the Inland Revenue had already taken their share , and there were precious few reductions in tax save for wives , children , life-insurances or any of the other normal encumbrances which Cecil had so far avoided . He read the film star's sorry story and frowned at the provisions of Schedule D taxation which not only allowed her to claim relief on the most unlikely purchases , but also postponed demanding the tax until her financial year was ended , audited and agreed by the Inspector . The process could , and often did take several years . At one point the astute Miss Cheesecake had claimed tax relief on the pur- chase of several mink coats which , it seemed , were necessary to fur- ther her career . Alternatively , it was reported , she tearfully claimed that the warm coats were heating appliances and therefore susceptible to a depreciation tax allowance as plant and machinery . The Between all the interested parties , the final agreement had been delayed long enough for Miss Cheesecake to spend all the money which by rights should have been reserved for her tax . Discounting one chinchilla jacket , a Rolls- Royce and a Sussex manor house , all three of which were in her husband's name , she now declared herself bankrupt . The train drew into another station and Cecil , with a further six stops to go , was left almost alone in the coach . He fumed as he recol- lected the long correspondence he had had with the Inland Reve- nue in an effort to obtain tax relief for a jacket used solely in the office . ' If the jacket is a condition of your employment , ' the Inspector had written , ' it may qualify for relief . ' ' It 's not mine . I wasn't sitting there . ' She blinked disdainfully at him and stepped out . It was a new briefcase , and as the train jogged along the shiny clasp twinkled invitingly at Cecil . He wondered what it contained . Probably the remains of someone's lunch or a few secret files . He smiled at his own joke . It was locked . Eager fingers felt bulky contents and when he shook the case there was a rustling thud of wads of paper . ' Cor ! ' he muttered aloud , ' there 's five thousand at least . ' He felt in his jacket pocket and pulled out a key ring . In succession he tried his own briefcase key , a suitcase key and a device designed to lock typewriters . Cecil searched in his pockets once more and came up with two paper-clips . After a few seconds of twisting , he roughly thrust a bent wire loop into the lock and waggled it around vigorously . There was a click and the briefcase opened . Cecil thrust an eager hand inside , his fingers groping after wads of five pound notes . They closed on a single bundle and , fumbling with nervous excitement , he pulled it out . His eye rested on a wad of stiff white paper printed on one side . ' Old fashioned fivers ! ' he muttered again , and tried to recall if they were still legal tender . Surely the Govr. and Compa. of the Bank of England would never break their promise to pay on rude demand , let alone on polite request . Cecil frowned in disappointment as he focussed upon the printing to find no Govr. , no Compa. , in fact no five pound notes at all . He was holding a paper booklet , the top sheet of which bore , in large Baskerville type , the words METROPOLITAN MONOTECHNIC INSTITUTE ADVANCED ACCOUNTANCY COURSE NO. 3 . He ruffled the sheets irritably and glowered at his own breach of social morality . He climbed the stairs , eager to unload the guilt-symbol upon the ticket-collector and then to emerge carrying his shame unseen , but burning , into the night . He reached the barrier and fumbled for his contract before thrusting the briefcase at the ticket-collector with the firm intention of playing the dutiful citizen retrieving lost property . Sentence Database Before he could open his mouth , the collector stretched out a hand . ' Watch your step there , sir ! Your briefcase is hanging open . You 'll have someone shoving their hot little hands inside . Here , I 'll do it . ' The collector pressed the twinkling catch home with a click . Cecil , irretrievably laden with both briefcase and conscience , stumbled away into the darkness . ' HELLO , CECIL . HAD a busy day ? ' His mother came into the hall as he opened the front door . He nodded irritably and , turning his back to her , contrived to slide the brief- case into hiding between the do-it-yourself cupboard and the polished brass fourteen-pounder shell-case which served respectively as coat cupboard and um- brella stand . ' You 're later than usual , aren't you ? ' His mother tidied her grey hair in the hall-mirror they had once obtained as a free gift in exchange for the labels from half a hundredweight of Trunk and Greppes Tannin-free Tea . Cecil gritted his teeth and glowered at the inequity of Miss Cheesecake well-nigh bathing in tax-free champagne whilst he had to go easy on the immersion heater . ' What is it , Cecil ? Don't you feel well ? ' his mother asked solicitously . ' You do look tired . Go and get yourself a drink . ' ' Don't fuss , mother ! I 'm quite well and no more tired than usual , and we finished the gin last week , you know that . ' Cecil stepped towards the dining room . ' I 'm sure you must be tired , ' his mother insisted . ' You 're very irritable , anyway . ' ' I 'm NOT tired and I 'm NOT irritable . ' ' Very well then . ' His mother nodded with understanding . ' You 're not tired . Nobody 's tired . Now just you run along upstairs and wash your hands whilst I get dinner ready . ' Cecil wriggled irritably under the misplaced management of a mother who had failed to realise that a son who is nearly bald is no longer a baby . He started to climb the stairs , stamping with unnecessary vigour upon the treads . ' And don't wipe the dirt off on the towel like you did yesterday . Your Auntie Edie 's coming in for a cup of tea later and you know how she has a good look round everywhere . ' There was a tinkle and a thud from beside the coat cupboard . Cecil's mother turned around in time to see the briefcase collapse against the brass umbrella stand . ' Well now ! ' She hurried towards it and picked it up . ' What have we here ? A new briefcase ! So THAT 'S what it 's all about . ' Cecil halted in mid-step near the top of the stairs and clenched his fists . ' So that 's what What 's all about ? ' he hissed without turning round . She pointed to the briefcase . ' So that 's why you are so irritable . You thought that I 'd think you 'd been extravagant . ' ' But I 'm NOT irritable ! ' He rushed down the stairs and , snatching the case , ran back upstairs with it . ' And I 've NOT been extravagant . ' " Naughty ! ' she called after him . ' Mother knows her boy . Arnold Olner In spite of all the transferred maternity she was endowed with by her patients , poor Serena was an infant-in-arms as a buyer of property . No , not even an infant-in-arms but a new-born babe , a premature piece of frailty in an oxygen- tent of utter innocence . The complexity of that innocence was colossal . It had layer after layer of illusion to be peeled off and replaced with sad knowledgeability . It was a nakedness of nai"vety to be clothed leaf by leaf with the disappointment of experience . Her first illusion consisted in the belief that all she need do was to go to an agent , visit half a dozen houses in one day , choose one , make an offer , put it in the hands of a lawyer and go away on her holiday while the whole transaction was put through . Fortunately , however , the fashion for Victorian architecture which Mr. John Betjeman had started several decades before had caught on at last and therefore saved the situation for the affluent middle-class , who now had plenty of lovely-ugly to be coldly elegant in . All this Serena discovered , and more , but in stages . For the first thing she did was to make an offer on a small pink terraced cottage , two beds , two inter-comm. rec. , mod. k. and b. , sep. W.C. small back yard , newly dec. , near shops and tube The next thing that Serena discovered was that she could not afford to buy a house at all . And this in spite of having at last managed to save the ten percent needed . Or so she thought , being then in possession of what seemed to her the princely sum of six hund- red pounds . The lawyer said : " Of course you must count about two hundred for legal charges and stamp duties , maybe less , depending on the price of the house , and whether it has been regis- tered . I take it you have a mortgage lined up , then , Mrs. - er - Buttery ? " " Not yet , but the bank would give me a loan , I 'm sure . " " Er , yes . You have some securities , then ? " His aspect was as dusty as his office , with scurf from dusty hair on the dusty shoulders of his black suit , cigarette ash down the front , an ashen face and yellow sleepy dust in the corners of his pale grey eyes . His finger-nails were dirty , though he tried to make up for it by constantly paring them with the finger-nail of the opposite hand . His voice was like his black and pin-stripe , a grey superimposition of respectability over the original colour of his own natural vowels , the result being somehow as ineffective , not just dusty-grey but muddy , slimy even . His digressions too , seemed to have no other purpose than the throwing of dust in his client's eyes , the dust of fake security , of the fake friend of the family , like the " Yes , well ... . " He judged that she had been sufficiently dazzled and gave a long raucous cough . " Only cigarettes worth smoking , these . Most unhealthy , English ones . Well , now , let me see . I think I can put you onto some people who might , I say might , let you have a mortgage on this property ... . " " But , they 're safe , are they ? I mean , they 're not - money-lenders ? " " Mrs. - er - Buttery , all mortgage companies are money-lenders . That 's rather the point , isn't it ? " " No , but I mean - " " I know what you mean . You may trust me , Mrs. Buttery . I think , however , that you might have to revise your ideas about - er - the type of property you intend to purchase . " She revised them . The little man from the Inter-Insular ( British Archipelago ) Insurance Company soon saw to that . I 'm afraid we can't take yours into account at all . It 's a rule of I.I.I. You see , you might stop work to have - well , for all sorts of reasons , or you might leave him . " " But how utterly extraordinary , " said Serena angrily , " you must be living in the nineteenth century . " " Oh , but it 's a very general rule , Mrs. Buttery , you 'll find that no insurance companies , or building societies , for that matter , will allow for the wife's earnings . Our lawyers - " " Who are your lawyers ? " " Clacton's . " " Well , I 'm damned . " " Now , let me see , you say your husband earns about ... yes , that would come to ... three , carry seven , six nines are fifty four - of course we 'd have to have some sort of proof , you know , it 's very difficult with self-employed persons , carry two . Yes . I 'm afraid we couldn't raise this loan to more than three thousand three fifty at the most . Now you could get quite a nice little semi-detached house in Grimstead for three thousand , that 's where I live , just before the green belt , lovely and modern , you know . I forgot to tell you , we don't usually lend any house built earlier than 1918 . " " You see , " she propounded to Rupert after her last patient had gone , " we can get three thousand three fifty , perhaps a little more if we can cheat your earnings a bit . I 'm sure you could raise the rest from one of your publishers , get two books commissioned and write them later . I 've got a bit owing too . Now , I saw some flats in Hendon for four thou , and some in West Hampstead for four two fifty , two beds , two reception , k. and b. , just think , our own bathroom . Much more spacious than that poky little cottage , which wasn't a bit practical really , the reception room was too small when divided and too big when not . Vence is a sober spot , half way between small town and village , pigeon grey , sly with arches , and linked by a whispering plot of fountains . In the main tree-heavy square you can sit in the autumn sunshine , still burning like a half-cooled iron , sip pastis and read the local newspapers . One called La Patriote is Communist , and at the time of our arrival it was throwing huge over-ripe verbal tomatoes at General de Gaulle . One side of this square is a smart but modest bar called Pierre's Bar . For one day , with the help of the Syndicat d'Initiative , we had been hunting for furnished rooms , and had given up , when an elderly lady , the owner of a residence called the Poet's Nest , had firmly closed the door in our noses . ' It is a pity , ' said Mart , ' because it would have been a good address . ' Now , after a woman's radar look , she decided Pierre would solve our problems . This was true , Pierre was a true Provenc*?6al , thin and yellow as lemon peel , wrestling with some gnawing rat of an illness , man of all trades , married to a commanding lady who loved small talk and the discreet accumulation of money . We went in . There were a few people in the bar , elderly , well-off , artistic , who , you felt , had made a hard bargain for giving up . ' I have furnished rooms , ' said Pierre , ' and all mod cons . ' The price was 16,000 francs a month . ' Yes , ' we said immediately , even before viewing . We were shown around by Pierre . The flat was on the third floor ; two rooms ; soft Provenc*? 6al view ; good intimate furnishing and colour ; running hot water from Butagas installation for washing-up , basin and bidet ; own private , modern lavatory . The first night's sleeping was like a long convalescence . We were woken up twice about dawn by a soft eruption of turtle-doves . This was strange , even magic , because the owner's name was Pierre Tortorolo which , in Nicoison Italian means ' turtledove ' . Pierre Turtledove . When we woke up properly it was raining , an even hopeless rain than London , and we looked out of the windows at the weeping trees and the curling white breath of the mountains . The land looked like a beaten woman and the turtle-doves cried her shame . There they were , in fact , below us , eight of them . Four of them were flattened on the window sills , two immolated on a nearby roof top , the other pair copulating . We had a morning at Pierre's . He talked about people . Marc Chagall used to live here and an Englishman named Lawrence . He was here , near the railway station , three or four years . During this period he wrote a book , The Lover of Lady Chatterly . No , he hadn't read it ; Madame did all the reading . Lawrence died in this very place . He used to come to Pierre's Bar again and again . No , he couldn't really remember him , he was one of the crowd . The sun came out ; Mart went shopping ; I sat in the square reading the Patriote . There was a front-page rear-attack on de Gaulle , and the rest of the paper was given up to murders , apart for an outcry against a proposal to drop radio-active material into the Mediterranean between Corsica and St Raphael . All the murders were well documented and had the air of being written by an ingenious , but mad film director of the Thirties . They mostly occurred in lonely farm-houses . Monsieur H , for instance , had been clubbed and throttled to death by his wife , children and father-in-law , after muddling up some sheep while the worse for drink . The family group then sat down for a late lunch before the father-in-law telephoned the police . Then again , Monsieur V , owing to family troubles , had written to the local paper and the superintendent of police , informing them that he was on the point Monsieur V's house was immediately surrounded by firemen and other officials , but there was no Monsieur V. He telephoned a few minutes later from a nearby village , apologising for the trouble , but explaining that the walls were porous and the gas had escaped . General relief was expressed , but Monsieur V ( this was actually reported in the next issue ) returned home and shot himself , leaving a note which again left his household goods Some grim comic relief was provided by an elderly farm labourer out for a shoot who hid himself in a bush and imitated a blackbird . Unfortunately a sporting taxi-driver was after this very bird and shot the farm- labourer in the face . All , however , ended well , reported the paper , since the pellets were easily removed and the labourer was able to return to work the same afternoon . We travelled down to Nice on the Lambretta . You can free-wheel down a quarter of the way . In the middle of the journey is a valley with a sea of vines and olives and beaches of earth pricked to blood by the hoe . Rising from the flecked sea are islands tapering to shipwrecked castles and towns , grey , rose-headed mariners clinging like limpets to the rock . There is a curd of morning smoke and a muffled bell taps the sky . Here we stopped , as in fine weather we always stopped . Down below is the village of Cagnes , but between are pockets of heat and cold like the hands of friends or strangers , and a flurry of early smells , the dark bosoms of beech and the thin pine fingers kissed by the sun . Then here was Nice , and the old holiday sea , blue as a new school exercise book . The same old Nice , creamy , vulgar , out of time , bitter-sweet with the ghosts of dead monarchs and brilliant prostitutes , edging past grubby grandeur to the old sleeping port . This , and Paris , were my ruined pavilions , and I could catch the taste of dead dreams on my tongue like spray . We parked the Lambretta opposite the Negresco , and went to the beach to have a swim . Amazing bedlam rocked in our eyes . The sea boiled with waves , they galloped to the walls and spumed over the Promenade des Anglais . A huge crowd had collected . There were firemen and policemen and ambulances , and the eyes of the spectators were hard with disaster . They all had that neat look of Mediterranean people to whom nothing could ever happen , the chosen sane , the uncuckolded , unrobbed , sheltered from disease and accident by doctors , God and the municipality . Yet , at any time now , the bell would ring for them - the gilded love house , the mad grandmother or the bloody child at the crossroads . It was growing cold . We left the crowd and drove back to Vence . The cool evening perfumes stood beckoning at the corners of the roads . Mart is unable to smell ( her sense organs were impaired years ago ) , and I had to explain the low , sharp and sweet signals in the air . When we got back home we felt exhausted . London sickness ( a sense of guilt , mingled with the memory of sandwiches We went straight to bed and slept until the turtle-doves drummed up the sun . The next morning , in the square opposite Pierre's , I read about the Nice beach catastrophe in the Patriote . Mart had been right , the body had been a woman's . It belonged to a Madame N. Enquiries had been made in the neighbourhood , and it transpired that Madame N's husband had made an arrangement with the dead lady's sister The sister , able to swim , had returned to the shore , but instead of returning to her brother-in-law ( with whom she had an illicit relationship ) , she went to her fiance*?2's house and confessed everything . Her fiance*?2 reported her to the police , and then jumped off a cliff near Monte Carlo . The day I promised to take Catherine down to visit my young friend Philip at his school in the country , we were to leave at eleven , but she arrived at nine . Her blue dress was new , and so were her fashionable shoes . Her hair had just been done . She looked more than ever like a pink and gold Renoir girl who expects everything from life . Catherine lives in a white house overlooking the sweeping brown tides of the river . She helped me clean up my flat with a devotion which said that she felt small flats were altogether more romantic than large houses . We drank tea , and talked mainly about Philip , who , being 15 , has pure stern tastes in every- thing from food to music . Catherine looked at the books lying around his room , and asked if she might borrow the stories of Isaac Babel to read on the train . Catherine is 13 . I suggested she might find them dif- ficult , but she said , ' Philip reads them , doesn't he ? ' During the journey I read newspapers and watched her pretty frowning face as she turned the pages of Babel , for she was determined to let nothing get between her and At the school , which is charming , ci- vilised and expensive , the two children walked together across green fields , and I followed , seeing how the sun gilded their bright friendly heads turned towards each other as they talked . In Catherine's left hand she carried the stories of Isaac Babel . After lunch we went to the pictures . Philip allowed # it to be seen that he thought going to the pictures just for the fun of it was For his sake we chose the more serious of the two films that were showing in the little town . It was about a good priest who helped cri- minals in New York . His goodness , how- ever , was not enough to prevent one of them from being sent to the gas chamber ; and Philip and I waited with Catherine in the dark until she had stopped crying and could face the light of a golden evening . At the entrance of the cinema the doorman was lying in wait for anyone who had red eyes . Grasping Catherine by her suffering arm , he said bitterly : ' Yes , why are you crying , he had to be punished for his crime , didn't he ? ' Cathe- rine stared at him , incredulous . Philip rescued her by saying with disdain : ' Some people don't know right from wrong even when its demonstrated to them . ' The doorman turned his attention to the next red-eyed emerger from the dark ; and we went on together to the station , the children silent because of the cruelty of the world . Finally Catherine said , her eyes wet again : ' I think its all absolutely beastly , and I can't bear to think about it . ' And Philip said : ' But we 've got to think about it , don't you see , because if we don't it 'll just go on and on , don't you see ? ' In the train going back to London I sat beside # Catherine . She had the stories open in front of her , but she said : ' Philip 's awfully lucky . I wish I went to that school . Did you notice that girl who said hullo to him in the garden ? JAVA java javac javat JDK aardvark aardwolf aaron aback abacus abaft abalone abandon abandoned abandonment abandons abase abased abasement abash abashed abate abated abatement abates abattoir abattoirs abbe abbess abbey abbeys abbot abbots abbreviate abbreviated abbreviates abbreviating abbreviation abbreviations abdicate abdicated abdicates abdicating abdication abdomen abdomens abdominal abduct abducted abducting abduction abductions abductor abductors abducts abe abeam abel abele aberdeen aberrant aberration aberrations abet abets abetted abetting abeyance abhor abhorred abhorrence abhorrent abhors abide abided abides abiding abidjan abies abilities ability abject abjectly abjure abjured ablate ablates ablating ablation ablative ablaze able ablebodied abler ablest abloom ablution ablutions ably abnegation abnormal abnormalities abnormality abnormally aboard abode abodes abolish abolished abolishes abolishing abolition abolitionist abolitionists abomb abominable abominably abominate abominated abomination abominations aboriginal aborigines abort aborted aborting abortion abortionist abortionists abortions abortive aborts abound abounded abounding abounds about above abraded abraham abrasion abrasions abrasive abrasively abrasiveness abrasives abreast abridge abridged abridgement abridging abroad abrogate abrogated abrogating abrogation abrogations abrupt abruptly abruptness abscess abscesses abscissa abscissae abscissas abscond absconded absconder absconding absconds abseil abseiled abseiler abseiling abseils absence absences absent absented absentee absenteeism absentees absenting absently absentminded absentmindedly absentmindedness absolute absolutely absoluteness absolutes absolution absolutism absolutist absolutists absolve absolved absolves absolving absorb absorbed absorbency absorbent absorber absorbers absorbing absorbingly absorbs absorption absorptions absorptive absorptivity abstain abstained abstainer abstainers abstaining abstains abstemious abstemiously abstemiousness abstention abstentions abstinence abstinent abstract abstracted abstractedly abstracting abstraction abstractions abstractly abstracts abstruse abstrusely absurd absurder absurdest absurdist absurdities absurdity absurdly abundance abundances abundant abundantly abuse abused abuser abusers abuses abusing abusive abusively abusiveness abut abutment abutments abutted abutting abuzz aby abysmal abysmally abyss abyssal abysses acacia academe academia academic academical academically academician academicians academics academies academy acanthus acapulco accede acceded acceding accelerate accelerated accelerates accelerating acceleration accelerations accelerator accelerators accelerometer accelerometers accent accented accenting accents accentuate accentuated accentuates accentuating accentuation accept acceptability acceptable acceptably acceptance acceptances accepted accepting acceptor acceptors accepts access accessed accesses accessibility accessible accessing accession accessions accessories accessory accidence accident accidental accidentally accidentprone accidents acclaim acclaimed acclaims acclamation acclamations acclimatisation acclimatise acclimatised acclimatising accolade accolades accommodate accommodated accommodates accommodating accommodation accommodations accompanied accompanies accompaniment accompaniments accompanist accompany accompanying accomplice accomplices accomplish accomplished accomplishes accomplishing accomplishment accomplishments accord accordance accorded according accordingly accordion accordionist accordions accords accost accosted accosting accosts account accountability accountable accountancy accountant accountants accounted accounting accounts accra accredit accreditation accredited accrediting accredits accreted accretion accretions accrual accruals accrue accrued accrues accruing accumulate accumulated accumulates accumulating accumulation accumulations accumulative accumulator accumulators accuracies accuracy accurate accurately accursed accusal accusals accusation accusations accusative accusatory accuse accused accuser accusers accuses accusing accusingly accustom accustomed accustoming ace aced acentric acerbic acerbity acers aces acetal acetate acetates acetic acetone acetylene ache ached aches achievable achieve achieved achievement achievements achiever achievers achieves achieving aching achingly achings achromatic achy acid acidic acidification acidified acidify acidifying acidity acidly acidophiles acidrain acids acknowledge acknowledged acknowledgement acknowledgements acknowledges acknowledging acknowledgment acknowledgments acme acne acolyte acolytes aconite acorn acorns acoustic acoustical acoustically acoustics acquaint acquaintance acquaintances acquainted acquainting acquaints acquiesce acquiesced acquiescence acquiescent acquiescing acquire acquired acquirer acquirers acquires acquiring acquisition acquisitions acquisitive acquisitiveness acquit acquited acquites acquits acquittal acquittals acquittance acquitted acquitting acre acreage acres acrid acrimonious acrimoniously acrimony acrobat acrobatic acrobatics acrobats acronym acronyms across acrostic acrostics acrylic acrylics act acted acting actings actinides action actionable actions activate activated activates activating activation activations activator activators active actively actives activism activist activists activities activity actor actors actress actresses acts actual actualisation actualise actualised actualities actuality actually actuarial actuaries actuary actuate actuated actuates actuating actuation actuator actuators acuity acumen acupuncture acupuncturist acupuncturists acute acutely acuteness acuter acutest acyclic adage adages adagio adam adamant adamantly adapt adaptability adaptable adaptation adaptations adapted adapter adapters adapting adaptive adaptively adaptivity adaptor adaptors adapts add added addenda addendum adder adders addict addicted addiction addictions addictive addictiveness addicts adding addition additional additionally additions additive additively additives addle addled addles addling address addressability addressable addressed addressee addressees addresses addressing adds adduce adduced adduces adducing adelaide aden adenine adenoid adenoids adenoma adenomas adept adepts adequacy adequate adequately adhere adhered adherence adherent adherents adherer adherers adheres adhering adhesion adhesions adhesive adhesiveness adhesives adhoc adiabatic adiabatically adieu adieus adieux adios adipose adit adjacency adjacent adjacently adjectival adjective adjectives adjoin adjoined adjoining adjoins adjourn adjourned adjourning adjournment adjourns adjudge adjudged adjudges adjudicate adjudicated adjudicates adjudicating adjudication adjudications adjudicator adjudicators adjunct adjuncts adjure adjust adjustable adjusted adjuster adjusting adjustment adjustments adjusts adjutant adlib adlibs adman admen admin administer administered administering administers administrate administrated administrating administration administrations administrative administratively administrator administrators admirable admirably admiral admirals admiration admire admired admirer admirers admires admiring admiringly admissibility admissible admission admissions admit admits admittance admittances admitted admittedly admitting admix admixture admonish admonished admonishes admonishing admonishment admonition admonitions admonitory ado adobe adolescence adolescent adolescents adonis adopt adopted adopter adopting adoption adoptions adoptive adopts adorable adorably adoration adore adored adorer adorers adores adoring adoringly adorn adorned adorning adornment adornments adorns adrenal adrenalin adrenaline adrift adroit adroitly adroitness adsorb adsorbed adsorption adulation adulatory adult adulterate adulterated adulterates adulterating adulteration adulterations adulterer adulterers adulteress adulteresses adulterous adultery adulthood adults adumbrate adumbrated adumbrating advance advanced advancement advancements advancer advances advancing advantage advantaged advantageous advantageously advantages advent advents adventure adventured adventurer adventurers adventures adventuring adventurism adventurous adventurously adverb adverbial adverbs adversarial adversaries adversary adverse adversely adversities adversity advert adverted advertise advertised advertisement advertisements advertiser advertisers advertises advertising adverts advice advices advisability advisable advise advised advisedly adviser advisers advises advising advisory advocacy advocate advocated advocates advocating adze aegean aegina aegis aeolian aeon aeons aerate aerated aerates aerating aeration aerator aerial aerially aerials aerify aerobatic aerobatics aerobe aerobes aerobic aerobically aerobics aerobraking aerodrome aerodromes aerodynamic aerodynamically aerodynamics aerofoil aerofoils aeronaut aeronautic aeronautical aeronautics aeroplane aeroplanes aerosol aerosols aerospace aesop aesthete aesthetes aesthetic aesthetically aestheticism aestheticsy afar affability affable affably affair affairs affect affectation affectations affected affectedly affecting affection affectionate affectionately affections affective affects afferent affidavit affidavits affiliate affiliated affiliates affiliating affiliation affiliations affine affinities affinity affirm affirmation affirmations affirmative affirmatively affirmed affirming affirms affix affixed affixes affixing afflict afflicted afflicting affliction afflictions afflicts affluence affluent afflux afford affordability affordable afforded affording affords afforestation afforested affray affront affronted affronts afghan afghani afghans afield afire aflame afloat afoot aforementioned aforesaid aforethought afraid afresh africa african africans afro afros aft after afterbirth aftercare aftereffect aftereffects afterglow afterlife afterlives aftermath afternoon afternoons aftershave aftershocks aftertaste afterthought afterthoughts afterward afterwards aga again against agakhan agape agar agaragar agave agaves age aged ageing ageings ageism ageless agencies agency agenda agendas agendums agent agents ageold ages agglomerated agglomerating agglomeration agglomerations agglutinative aggravate aggravated aggravates aggravating aggravation aggravations aggregate aggregated aggregates aggregating aggregation aggregations aggression aggressions aggressive aggressively aggressiveness aggressor aggressors aggrieved aggrievedly aghast agile agiler agility aging agings agio agitate agitated agitatedly agitates agitating agitation agitations agitator agitators agitprop agleam aglow agnostic agnosticism agnostics ago agog agonies agonise agonised agonises agonising agonisingly agonist agonists agony agora agoraphobia agoraphobic agouti agrarian agree agreeable agreeableness agreeably agreed agreeing agreement agreements agrees agribusiness agricultural agriculturalist agriculturalists agriculturally agriculture agrimony agrochemical agrochemicals agronomist agronomists agronomy aground ague ah aha ahead ahem ahoy aid aide aided aidedecamp aider aiders aides aidesdecamp aiding aids ail aileron ailerons ailing ailment ailments ails aim aimed aimer aiming aimless aimlessly aimlessness aims aint air airbase airborne airbrush airbus airconditioned airconditioner airconditioning aircraft aircrew aircrews aire aired airfield airfields airflow airforce airframe airframes airgun airier airiest airily airiness airing airings airless airlift airlifted airlifting airlifts airline airliner airliners airlines airlock airlocks airmail airman airmen airplane airplay airport airports airraid airs airship airships airsick airsickness airspace airstream airstrip airstrips airtight airtime airwave airwaves airway airways airworthiness airworthy airy aisle aisles aitches ajar akimbo akin ala alabama alabaster alacarte alack alacrity aladdin alanine alarm alarmed alarming alarmingly alarmism alarmist alarms alas alaska alaskan alb albania albany albatross albatrosses albeit albinism albino album albumen albumin albums alchemical alchemist alchemists alchemy alcohol alcoholic alcoholics alcoholism alcohols alcove alcoves aldehyde aldehydes alder alderman aldermen aldrin ale alehouse alembic alert alerted alerting alertly alertness alerts ales alfalfa alfatah alga algae algal algebra algebraic algebraical algebraically algebraist algebras algeria algerian algiers algorithm algorithmic algorithmically algorithms alias aliases alibaba alibi alibis alien alienate alienated alienates alienating alienation aliened aliening aliens alight alighted alighting alights align aligned aligning alignment alignments aligns alike alimentary alimony aline alined alines alining aliphatic aliquot aliquots alive alkali alkalic alkaline alkalinity alkalis alkalise alkaloid alkaloids alkanes alkyl all allay allayed allaying allays allegation allegations allege alleged allegedly alleges allegiance allegiances alleging allegorical allegorically allegories allegory allegri allegro allele alleles allelic allergen allergens allergic allergies allergy alleviate alleviated alleviates alleviating alleviation alleviations alley alleys alleyway alleyways alliance alliances allied allies alligator alligators alliterate alliterated alliterating alliteration alliterations alliterative allocatable allocate allocated allocates allocating allocation allocations allocator allocators allophones allot allotment allotments allotrope allotropic allots allotted allotting allow allowable allowance allowances allowed allowing allows alloy alloyed alloying alloys allude alluded alludes alluding allure allured allurement allurements allures alluring alluringly allusion allusions allusive alluvia alluvial alluvium ally allying almanac almanacs almighty almond almonds almost alms almshouse almshouses aloe aloes aloft aloha alone aloneness along alongside aloof aloofness aloud alp alpaca alpacas alpha alphabet alphabetic alphabetical alphabetically alphabets alphanumeric alphas alpine alps already alright also alt altar altarpiece altarpieces altars alter alterable alteration alterations altercate altercation altercations altered alterego altering alternate alternated alternately alternates alternating alternation alternations alternative alternatively alternatives alternator alternators alters although altimeter altimeters altitude altitudes alto altogether altruism altruist altruistic altruistically alts alum aluminium aluminum alumni alumnus alveolar alveoli always am amalgam amalgamate amalgamated amalgamates amalgamating amalgamation amalgamations amalgams amanuensis amass amassed amasses amassing amateur amateurish amateurishly amateurishness amateurism amateurs amatory amaze amazed amazement amazes amazing amazingly amazon amazons ambassador ambassadorial ambassadors amber ambergris ambiance ambidextrous ambience ambient ambiguities ambiguity ambiguous ambiguously ambit ambition ambitions ambitious ambitiously ambivalence ambivalent ambivalently amble ambled ambler ambles ambling ambrosia ambulance ambulances ambulant ambulate ambulatory ambuscade ambuscades ambush ambushed ambushers ambushes ambushing ameliorate ameliorated ameliorates ameliorating amelioration amen amenability amenable amend amendable amended amending amendment amendments amends amenities amenity amenorrhoea amens america american americans americium amethyst amethystine amethysts amiability amiable amiableness amiably amicability amicable amicably amid amide amidships amidst amigo amine amines amino amir amiss amity amman ammeter ammeters ammo ammonia ammonites ammonium ammunition amnesia amnesiac amnesic amnesties amnesty amniotic amoeba amoebae amoebic amok among amongst amoral amorality amorist amorous amorously amorphous amortisation amortise amortised amount amounted amounting amounts amour amours amp ampere amperes ampersand ampersands amphetamine amphetamines amphibia amphibian amphibians amphibious amphitheatre amphitheatres amphora ample ampler amplification amplifications amplified amplifier amplifiers amplifies amplify amplifying amplitude amplitudes amply ampoules amps ampule ampules ampuls amputate amputated amputating amputation amputations amputee amputees amuck amulet amulets amuse amused amusement amusements amuses amusing amusingly an ana anabolic anachronism anachronisms anachronistic anachronistically anaconda anacondas anaemia anaemic anaerobic anaerobically anaesthesia anaesthetic anaesthetics anaesthetise anaesthetised anaesthetising anaesthetist anaesthetists anagram anagrammatic anagrammatically anagrams anal analgesia analgesic analgesics anally analogical analogies analogise analogous analogously analogue analogues analogy analysable analyse analysed analyser analysers analyses analysing analysis analyst analysts analytic analytical analytically anamorphic ananas anaphora anaphoric anarchic anarchical anarchism anarchist anarchistic anarchists anarchy anathema anatomic anatomical anatomically anatomies anatomist anatomists anatomy ancestor ancestors ancestral ancestries ancestry anchor anchorage anchorages anchored anchoring anchorite anchors anchovies anchovy ancient anciently ancients ancillary and andante andes andrew androgynous android androids anecdotal anecdotally anecdote anecdotes anechoic anemia anemic anemone anemones anergy aneroid aneurysm aneurysms anew angel angelic angelica angels angelus anger angered angering angers angina anginal angioplasty angle angled anglepoise angler anglers angles anglian anglican angling angola angolan angolans angora angoras angrier angriest angrily angry angst angstroms anguish anguished anguishes angular angularity anhydrous anil aniline animal animals animate animated animatedly animates animating animation animations animator animators animism animist animists animosities animosity animus anion anionic anions anise aniseed aniseeds anisotropic anisotropies anisotropy ankara ankle ankles anklet anklets anna annal annals anneal annealed annealer annealing annex annexation annexations annexe annexed annexes annexing annihilate annihilated annihilates annihilating annihilation anniversaries anniversary annotate annotated annotates annotating annotation annotations announce announced announcement announcements announcer announcers announces announcing annoy annoyance annoyances annoyed annoyer annoyers annoying annoyingly annoys annual annualised annually annuals annuities annuity annul annular annuli annulled annulling annulment annuls annulus annunciation anode anodes anodised anodyne anoint anointed anointing anoints anomalies anomalous anomalously anomaly anomic anon anonym anonymity anonymous anonymously anonyms anorak anoraks anorexia anorexic another answer answerable answered answerer answering answers ant antacid antacids antagonise antagonised antagonises antagonising antagonism antagonisms antagonist antagonistic antagonists ante anteater anteaters antecedent antecedents antechamber antedate antedates antedating antediluvian antelope antelopes antenatal antenna antennae antennas anterior anteriorly anteroom anthem anthems anther anthologies anthologise anthologised anthology anthracite anthrax anthropic anthropocentric anthropogenic anthropogenically anthropoid anthropological anthropologist anthropologists anthropology anthropometric anthropomorphic anthropomorphising anthropomorphism anti antiabortionists antiaircraft antibiotic antibiotics antibodies antibody antic anticipate anticipated anticipates anticipating anticipation anticipations anticipative anticipatory anticlimax anticlockwise anticoagulants anticonstitutional antics anticyclone antidepressant antidepressants antidote antidotes antifreeze antigen antigenic antigens antihistamines antilope antimatter antimony antioxidants antiparticles antipathetic antipathies antipathy antipodes antiquarian antiquarianism antiquarians antiquaries antiquary antiquated antique antiques antiquities antiquity antiseptic antiseptics antisocial antistatic antisymmetric antisymmetry antitheses antithesis antithetic antithetical antithetically antitrust antiviral antler antlers antlion antlions antonym antonyms antral antrum ants antwerp anus anvil anvils anxieties anxiety anxious anxiously any anybody anyhow anymore anyone anyplace anything anyway anyways anywhere aorist aorta aortas aortic apace apache apaches apart apartment apartments apartness apathetic apathetically apathy ape aped apeman aperies aperiodic aperiodically aperitif aperitifs aperture apertures apery apes apex aphasia aphelion aphid aphids aphorism aphorisms aphorist aphoristic aphrodisiac aphrodisiacs apian apiaries apiarist apiary apiece aping apis apish aplenty aplomb apnea apnoea apocalypse apocalyptic apocryphal apogee apolitical apollo apologetic apologetically apologia apologies apologise apologised apologises apologising apologist apologists apology apoplectic apoplexy apostasy apostate apostates apostle apostles apostolate apostolic apostrophe apostrophes apostrophised apothecaries apothecary apotheosis appal appalled appalling appallingly appals apparatchik apparatchiks apparatus apparatuses apparel apparelled apparent apparently apparition apparitions appeal appealed appealing appealingly appeals appear appearance appearances appeared appearing appears appease appeased appeasement appeaser appeasers appeases appeasing appellant appellants appellate appellation appellations append appendage appendages appended appendices appendicitis appending appendix appends appertain appertained appertaining appetiser appetising appetite appetites applaud applauded applauding applauds applause apple applecart applepie apples applet appliance appliances applicability applicable applicant applicants application applications applicative applicator applicators applied applier applies applique apply applying appoint appointed appointee appointees appointing appointment appointments appoints apportion apportioned apportioning apportionment apportions apposite apposition appraisal appraisals appraise appraised appraisees appraiser appraisers appraises appraising appraisingly appreciable appreciably appreciate appreciated appreciates appreciating appreciation appreciations appreciative appreciatively apprehend apprehended apprehending apprehends apprehension apprehensions apprehensive apprehensively apprentice apprenticed apprentices apprenticeship apprenticeships apprise apprised apprising appro approach approachability approachable approached approaches approaching approbation appropriate appropriated appropriately appropriateness appropriates appropriating appropriation appropriations approval approvals approve approved approves approving approvingly approximate approximated approximately approximates approximating approximation approximations apricot apricots april apriori apron aprons apropos apse apses apsis apt aptest aptitude aptitudes aptly aptness aqua aqualung aquamarine aquanaut aquaria aquarium aquariums aquatic aquatics aqueduct aqueducts aqueous aquifer aquifers aquiline arab arabesque arabesques arabia arabian arabians arabic arable arabs arachnid arachnids arachnoid arachnophobia arak araks ararat arbiter arbiters arbitrage arbitrageur arbitrageurs arbitral arbitrarily arbitrariness arbitrary arbitrate arbitrated arbitrates arbitrating arbitration arbitrations arbitrator arbitrators arbor arboreal arboretum arbour arc arcade arcades arcadia arcading arcana arcane arcanely arcaneness arced arch archaeological archaeologically archaeologist archaeologists archaeology archaeopteryx archaic archaism archaisms archangel archangels archbishop archbishops archdeacon archdeaconry archdeacons archdiocese archduke archdukes arched archenemies archenemy archer archers archery arches archetypal archetype archetypes archetypical arching archipelago architect architectonic architects architectural architecturally architecture architectures architrave architraves archival archive archived archives archiving archivist archivists archly archness archway archways arcing arcs arctic ardency ardent ardently ardour arduous are area areal areas arena arenas arent argent argon argot arguable arguably argue argued arguer arguers argues arguing argument argumentation argumentative argumentatively arguments argus aria arias arid aridity aridness aright arise arisen arises arising aristocracies aristocracy aristocrat aristocratic aristocrats arithmetic arithmetical arithmetically arizona ark arkansas arks arm armada armadas armadillo armament armaments armature armatures armband armbands armchair armchairs armed armenia armful armfuls armhole armholes armies arming armistice armless armlet armlets armour armoured armourer armourers armouries armourplated armoury armpit armpits armrest arms army aroma aromas aromatherapist aromatherapy aromatic aromaticity aromatics arose around arousal arousals arouse aroused arouses arousing arrange arrangeable arranged arrangement arrangements arranger arranges arranging arrant arrases array arrayed arraying arrays arrears arrest arrestable arrested arrester arresting arrests arrhythmia arrival arrivals arrive arrived arriver arrives arriving arrogance arrogant arrogantly arrow arrowed arrowhead arrowheads arrowing arrowroot arrows arsenal arsenals arsenic arsenide arson arsonist arsonists art artefact artefacts artefactual arterial arteries artery artful artfully artfulness arthritic arthritis arthropod arthropods arthur artichoke artichokes article articled articles articulacy articular articulate articulated articulately articulates articulating articulation articulations articulatory artier artifice artificial artificiality artificially artillery artisan artisans artist artiste artistes artistic artistically artistry artists artless artlessly artlessness arts artwork artworks arty arum as asbestos asbestosis ascend ascendancy ascendant ascended ascendency ascender ascending ascends ascension ascensions ascent ascents ascertain ascertainable ascertained ascertaining ascertainment ascertains ascetic asceticism ascetics ascorbic ascribable ascribe ascribed ascribes ascribing ascription ascriptions aseptic asexual ash ashamed ashamedly ashbin ashbins ashcans ashen ashes ashore ashtray ashtrays ashy asia asian asians asiatic aside asides asinine ask askance asked askers askew asking asks aslant asleep asocial asp asparagus aspect aspects asperity aspersion aspersions asphalt asphyxia asphyxiate asphyxiated asphyxiation aspic aspidistra aspirant aspirants aspirate aspirated aspirates aspirating aspiration aspirational aspirations aspirators aspire aspired aspires aspirin aspiring aspirins asps ass assail assailable assailant assailants assailed assailing assails assassin assassinate assassinated assassinating assassination assassinations assassins assault assaulted assaulting assaults assay assayed assayer assays assegai assegais assemblage assemblages assemble assembled assembler assemblers assembles assemblies assembling assembly assent assented assenting assents assert asserted asserting assertion assertions assertive assertively assertiveness asserts asses assess assessable assessed assesses assessing assessment assessments assessor assessors asset assets assiduity assiduous assiduously assign assignable assignation assignations assigned assignees assigner assigning assignment Assignment assignments assigns assimilable assimilate assimilated assimilates assimilating assimilation assist assistance assistant assistants assisted assisting assists assizes associate associated associates associateship associating association associational associations associative associatively associativity assonance assort assorted assortment assortments assuage assuaged assuages assuaging assume assumed assumes assuming assumption assumptions assurance assurances assure assured assuredly assures assuring assyria assyrian aster asterisk asterisked asterisks astern asteroid asteroids asters asthma asthmatic asthmatics astigmatic astigmatism astir astonish astonished astonishes astonishing astonishingly astonishment astound astounded astounding astoundingly astounds astraddle astral astrally astray astride astringent astrolabe astrolabes astrologer astrologers astrological astrology astronaut astronautical astronautics astronauts astronomer astronomers astronomic astronomical astronomically astronomy astrophysical astrophysicist astrophysicists astrophysics astute astutely astuteness asunder aswan asylum asylums asymmetric asymmetrical asymmetrically asymmetries asymmetry asymptomatic asymptote asymptotes asymptotic asymptotically asynchronous asynchronously at atavism atavistic ate atelier atheism atheist atheistic atheistically atheists athena athens atherosclerosis athlete athletes athletic athletically athleticism athletics atlanta atlantic atlantis atlas atlases atmosphere atmospheres atmospheric atmospherically atmospherics atoll atolls atom atombomb atomic atomically atomicity atomisation atomised atomistic atoms atonal atonality atone atoned atonement atones atonic atoning atop atrial atrium atrocious atrociously atrocities atrocity atrophied atrophies atrophy atrophying atropine attach attachable attache attached attaches attaching attachment attachments attack attacked attacker attackers attacking attacks attain attainable attained attaining attainment attainments attains attempt attempted attempting attempts attend attendance attendances attendant attendants attended attendees attender attenders attending attends attention attentional attentions attentive attentively attentiveness attenuate attenuated attenuates attenuating attenuation attenuator attenuators attest attestation attested attesting attests attic attics attila attire attired attiring attitude attitudes attitudinal attorney attorneys attract attracted attracting attraction attractions attractive attractively attractiveness attractor attractors attracts attributable attribute attributed attributes attributing attribution attributions attributive attrition attritional attune attuned atypical atypically aubergine aubergines auburn auction auctioned auctioneer auctioneers auctioning auctions audacious audaciously audacity audibility audible audibly audience audiences audio audiovisual audit audited auditing audition auditioned auditioning auditions auditive auditor auditorium auditors auditory audits auger augers augite augment augmentation augmentations augmented augmenting augments augur augured augurs augury august augustus auk auks aunt auntie aunties aunts aupair aupairs aura aural aurally auras aurevoir auric auriculas aurora aurorae auroral auroras auspice auspices auspicious auspiciously aussie aussies austere austerely austerity austral australian austria autarchy auteur authentic authentically authenticate authenticated authenticates authenticating authentication authenticator authenticators authenticity author authored authoress authorial authoring authorisation authorisations authorise authorised authorises authorising authoritarian authoritarianism authoritarians authoritative authoritatively authorities authority authors authorship autism autistic auto autobahn autobahns autobiographical autobiographically autobiographies autobiography autocracies autocracy autocrat autocratic autocratically autocrats autocue autograph autographed autographing autographs autoignition autoimmune automat automata automate automated automates automatic automatically automatics automating automation automaton automats automobile automorphism automorphisms automotive autonomic autonomous autonomously autonomy autopilot autopsies autopsy autosuggestion autumn autumnal autumns auxiliaries auxiliary avail availabilities availability available availed availing avails avalanche avalanches avalanching avantgarde avarice avaricious avariciousness ave avenge avenged avenger avengers avenges avenging avens avenue avenues aver average averaged averagely averages averaging averred averring avers averse aversion aversions aversive avert averted averting averts avian aviaries aviary aviate aviation aviator aviators avid avidity avidly avionics avocado avoid avoidable avoidance avoided avoiding avoids avoirdupois avow avowal avowals avowed avowedly avowing avulsion avuncular await awaited awaiting awaits awake awaken awakened awakening awakenings awakens awakes awaking award awarded awarding awards aware awareness awash away awe awed aweless awesome awesomely awesomeness awestruck awful awfully awfulness awhile awkward awkwardest awkwardly awkwardness awls awn awning awnings awoke awoken awol awry axe axed axehead axeheads axeman axes axial axially axillary axing axiom axiomatic axiomatically axiomatising axioms axis axle axles axolotl axon axons aye ayurvedic azalea azaleas azimuth azimuthal azores aztec aztecs azure baa baaing baal babas babble babbled babbler babblers babbles babbling babe babel babes babies baboon baboons baby babyface babyhood babying babyish babylon babysit babysitter babysitters babysitting baccarat bacchus bach bachelor bachelors bacilli bacillus back backache backbench backbencher backbenchers backbone backbones backchat backdate backdated backdrop backed backer backers backfire backfired backfires backfiring backgammon background backgrounds backhand backhanded backing backlash backless backlight backlit backlog backlogs backpack backpacker backpackers backpacking backpacks backpedal backpedalled backpedalling backrest backs backseat backside backsides backslapping backslash backsliding backspace backspaces backspacing backstabbing backstage backstairs backstreet backstreets backstroke backtrack backtracked backtracking backtracks backup backups backward backwardness backwards backwash backwater backwaters backwoods backwoodsmen backyard bacon bacteria bacterial bactericidal bacteriological bacteriologist bacteriologists bacteriology bacteriophage bacterium bad baddy bade bader badge badged badger badgered badgering badgers badges badinage badlands badly badminton badness badtempered baffle baffled bafflement baffler baffles baffling bafflingly bag bagatelle bagdad bagels bagful bagfuls baggage baggages bagged bagger baggier baggiest bagging baggy baghdad bagman bagmen bagpipe bagpiper bagpipes bags baguette baguettes bah bahamas bail bailed bailiff bailiffs bailing bailiwick bailout bails bait baited baiters baiting baitings baits bake baked bakehouse baker bakeries bakers bakery bakes baking bakings baklavas balaclava balaclavas balalaika balance balanced balancer balances balancing balconies balcony bald balder balderdash baldest balding baldly baldness baldy bale baled baleen baleful balefully bales bali baling ball ballad ballade ballades ballads ballast ballasts ballbearing ballbearings ballerina ballerinas ballet balletic ballets ballistic ballistics balloon ballooned ballooning balloonist balloonists balloons ballot balloted balloting ballots ballpen ballpens ballpoint ballroom ballrooms balls ballyhoo balm balmier balmiest balmoral balms balmy baloney balsa balsam baltic baluster balusters balustrade balustraded balustrades bambino bamboo bamboos bamboozle bamboozled bamboozles ban banal banalities banality banana bananas band bandage bandaged bandages bandaging bandanna banded bandied bandier bandiest banding bandit banditry bandits bandpass bands bandstand bandwagon bandwagons bandwidth bandwidths bane bang banged banger bangers banging bangkok bangle bangles bangs banish banished banishes banishing banishment banister banisters banjo bank bankable banked banker bankers banking banknote banknotes bankrupt bankruptcies bankruptcy bankrupted bankrupting bankrupts banks banned banner banners banning bannister bannisters banns banquet banqueting banquets bans banshee banshees bantam bantams bantamweight banter bantered bantering baobab baobabs bap baptise baptised baptises baptising baptism baptismal baptisms baptist baptists bar barb barbarian barbarians barbaric barbarically barbarism barbarities barbarity barbarous barbarously barbecue barbecued barbecues barbed barbell barbels barber barbers barbie barbiturate barbiturates barbs barcode bard bards bare bareback bared barefaced barefoot barefooted barely bareness barer bares barest bargain bargained bargainers bargaining bargains barge barged bargepole barges barging baring baritone baritones barium bark barked barker barkers barking barks barky barley barleycorn barleycorns barmaid barmaids barman barmen barn barnacle barnacles barns barnstorming barnyard barometer barometers barometric baron baronage baroness baronesses baronet baronets baronial baronies barons barony baroque barrack barracking barracks barracuda barrage barrages barre barred barrel barrelled barrels barren barrenness barricade barricaded barricades barrier barriers barring barrister barristers barrow barrows bars bart bartender barter bartered barterer bartering basal basalt basaltic basalts base baseball baseballs based baseless baseline baselines basely basement basements baseness baser bases basest bash bashed bashes bashful bashfully bashfulness bashing basic basically basics basify basil basilica basilicas basilisk basilisks basin basinful basing basins basis bask basked basket basketball basketful basketry baskets basking basks basque basrelief basreliefs bass basses bassist bassoon bassoons bastard bastardisation bastardise bastardised bastards bastardy baste basted basting bastion bastions bat batch batched batches batching bate bated bates bath bathe bathed bather bathers bathes bathetic bathhouse bathing bathos bathrobe bathroom bathrooms baths bathtub bathtubs bathurst bathwater batik batiks bating batman batmen baton batons bats batsman batsmen battalion battalions batted batten battened battening battens batter battered batteries battering batters battery batting battle battleaxe battlecry battled battledress battlefield battlefields battleground battlegrounds battlement battlemented battlements battler battlers battles battleship battleships battling batty bauble baubles baud baulk baulked baulking baulks baulky bauxite bavaria bavarian bawdier bawdiest bawdy bawl bawled bawling bawls bay bayed baying bayonet bayonets bays bazaar bazaars bazooka bazookas be beach beachcomber beached beaches beachhead beaching beachside beachy beacon beaconed beacons bead beaded beadier beadiest beading beadings beadle beadles beads beadwork beady beadyeyed beagle beagles beak beaked beaker beakers beaks beam beamed beaming beams beamy bean beanbag beanery beanie beanpole beans beanstalk beanstalks beany bear bearable bearably beard bearded beardless beards bearer bearers bearing bearings bearish bears bearskin bearskins beast beastliest beastliness beastly beasts beat beaten beater beaters beatific beatification beatifications beatified beatifies beatify beating beatings beatitude beatitudes beatnik beatniks beats beatup beau beaus beauteous beautician beauties beautified beautifier beautifiers beautifies beautiful beautifully beautify beauts beauty beaux beaver beavering beavers bebop becalm becalmed became because beck beckon beckoned beckoning beckons becks become becomes becoming bed bedazzle bedazzled bedbug bedbugs bedchamber bedclothes bedcover bedded bedder bedding beddings bedecked bedecks bedevil bedevilled bedevilment bedevils bedfellow bedfellows bedlam bedlinen bedmaker bedmakers bedouin bedouins bedpan bedpans bedpost bedraggled bedridden bedrock bedroom bedrooms beds bedsheets bedside bedsit bedsitter bedsitters bedsore bedsores bedspread bedspreads bedstead bedsteads bedtime bedtimes bee beech beeches beechnut beechwood beef beefburger beefburgers beefcake beefeater beefier beefiest beefs beefy beehive beehives beekeepers beeline beelines been beep beeper beeping beeps beer beermat beermats beers beery bees beeswax beet beetle beetles beetroot beets befall befallen befalling befalls befell befit befits befitted befitting befog before beforehand befoul befriend befriended befriending befriends befuddle befuddled befuddling beg began begat beget begets begetting beggar beggared beggarly beggars beggary begged begging beggings begin beginner beginners beginning beginnings begins begone begonias begot begotten begrudge begrudged begrudgingly begs beguile beguiled beguilement beguiling begun behalf behave behaved behaves behaving behaviour behavioural behaviourally behaviourism behaviourist behaviourists behaviours behead beheaded beheading beheld behemoth behest behind behindhand behinds behold beholden beholder beholders beholding beholds behoved behoves beige beijing being beings beirut bejewel bejewelled bel belabour belated belatedly belatedness belay belayed belays belch belched belches belching beleaguered belfast belfries belfry belgian belgians belgium belgrade belie belied belief beliefs belies believability believable believably believe believed believer believers believes believing belike belittle belittled belittles belittling bell belladonna bellbottoms belle belled belles bellicose bellicosity bellies belligerence belligerent belligerently belligerents bellow bellowed bellowing bellows bells belly bellyful belong belonged belonging belongings belongs beloved below belt belted belting beltings belts belying bemoan bemoaned bemoaning bemoans bemuse bemused bemusedly bemusement ben bench benches benchmark benchmarking benchmarks bend bendable bended bender benders bending bendings bends beneath benediction benedictions benefaction benefactions benefactor benefactors benefactress benefice beneficence beneficent beneficial beneficially beneficiaries beneficiary benefit benefited benefiting benefits benelux benevolence benevolent benevolently bengal benighted benightedly benign benignity benignly benjamin bent benzene bequeath bequeathed bequeathing bequest bequests berate berated berating berber bereave bereaved bereavement bereavements bereaving bereft beret berets bergs berk berlin berliner bermuda bern berries berry berserk berth berthed berths beryl beryllium beseech beseeched beseeches beseeching beseechingly beset besets besetting beside besides besiege besieged besieging besmirch besot besotted bespattered bespeak bespeaking bespeaks bespectacled bespoke best bestial bestiality bestiary bestir bestirred bestirring bestknown bestow bestowal bestowals bestowed bestowing bestows bestride bestrode bests bestseller bestsellers bestselling bet beta betel betide betimes betoken betokened betokens betray betrayal betrayals betrayed betrayer betrayers betraying betrays betroth betrothal betrothed betroths bets betted better bettered bettering betterment betters betting between betwixt bevel bevelled bevelling bevels beverage beverages bevvy bevy bewail bewailed bewailing bewails beware bewhiskered bewilder bewildered bewildering bewilderingly bewilderment bewilders bewitch bewitched bewitching beyond biannual bias biased biases biasing biassed biasses biassing bib bible bibles biblical biblically biblicists bibliographic bibliographical bibliographies bibliography bibliophile bibs bicameral bicarb bicarbonate bicentenary bicentennial biceps bicker bickering bickerings bicycle bicycled bicycles bicycling bid bidden bidder bidders bidding biddings bide bided bides bidet biding bidirectional bids biennial biennials bier bifocal bifocals bifurcated bifurcation bifurcations big bigamist bigamists bigamous bigamy bigapple bigben bigger biggest biggish bigheads bigness bigot bigoted bigotry bigots bijou bijoux bike biker bikes biking bikini bikinis bilabial bilateral bilaterally bile biles bilge bilges bilharzia biliary bilingual bilingualism bilinguals bilious bill billable billboard billboards billed billet billeted billeting billets billiard billiards billing billings billion billionaire billionaires billions billionth billow billowed billowing billows billowy billposters bills billy biltong bimbo bimodal bimonthly bin binaries binary bind binder binders bindery binding bindings binds bindweed bing binge bingo binnacle binocular binoculars binodal binomial bins biochemical biochemically biochemist biochemistry biochemists biodegradable biodiversity bioengineering biofeedback biogeographical biographer biographers biographical biographically biographies biography biological biologically biologist biologists biology biomass biomedical biometric biometrics biometry biomorph bionic bionics biophysical biopsies biopsy biorhythm biorhythms bioscope biosphere biospheres biosynthesis biota biotechnological biotechnologist biotechnologists biotechnology biotic bipartisan bipartite biped bipedal bipedalism bipeds biplane biplanes bipolar birch birched birches bird birdbath birdbaths birdcage birdcages birdie birdies birds birdsong birdtables birdwatcher birdwatchers birdwatching birefringence birefringent birth birthday birthdays birthmark birthmarks birthplace birthrate birthright birthrights births biscuit biscuits biscuity bisect bisected bisecting bisects bisexual bisexuality bisexuals bishop bishopric bishoprics bishops bismarck bismuth bison bisons bissau bistable bistro bit bitch bitches bitchiness bitching bitchy bite biter biters bites biting bitingly bitmap bits bitten bitter bitterest bitterly bittern bitterness bitters bittersweet bittiness bitts bitty bitumen bituminous bivalve bivalves bivouac bivouacked bivouacs biweekly biz bizarre bizarrely bizarreness blab blabbed blabber blabbering blabs black blackball blackballed blackballing blackberries blackberry blackbird blackbirds blackboard blackboards blackcurrant blackcurrants blacked blacken blackened blackening blackens blacker blackest blackfly blackguard blackhead blackheads blacking blackish blackjack blackleg blacklist blacklisted blacklisting blacklists blackly blackmail blackmailed blackmailer blackmailers blackmailing blackmails blackness blackout blackouts blacks blacksea blackshirts blacksmith blacksmiths blackthorn bladder bladders blade bladed blades blah blame blameable blamed blameful blameless blamelessly blamelessness blames blameworthy blaming blanch blanched blanching blancmange bland blandest blandishments blandly blandness blank blanked blanker blanket blanketed blanketing blankets blanking blankly blankness blanks blare blared blares blaring blase blaspheme blasphemed blasphemer blasphemers blasphemies blaspheming blasphemous blasphemously blasphemy blast blasted blaster blasters blasting blasts blat blatancy blatant blatantly blaze blazed blazer blazers blazes blazing bleach bleached bleacher bleachers bleaches bleaching bleak bleaker bleakest bleakly bleakness blearily bleary blearyeyed bleat bleated bleating bleats bled bleed bleeder bleeders bleeding bleeds bleep bleeped bleeper bleeping bleeps blemish blemished blemishes blench blenched blend blended blender blenders blending blends blesbok bless blessed blessedness blesses blessing blessings blew blight blighted blighting blights blimp blimps blind blinded blinder blindest blindfold blindfolded blindfolds blinding blindingly blindly blindness blinds blink blinked blinker blinkered blinkering blinkers blinking blinks blip blips bliss blissful blissfully blister blistered blistering blisteringly blisters blithe blithely blithering blitz blitzkrieg blizzard blizzards bloat bloated bloating blob blobs bloc block blockade blockaded blockades blockading blockage blockages blockbuster blockbusters blockbusting blocked blockers blockhead blockheads blocking blockish blocks blocky blocs bloke blokes blond blonde blonder blondes blondest blondhaired blonds blood bloodbath bloodcurdling blooded bloodhound bloodhounds bloodied bloodier bloodies bloodiest bloodily bloodless bloodlessness bloodletting bloodline bloodlust bloodred bloods bloodshed bloodshot bloodsport bloodsports bloodstain bloodstained bloodstains bloodstock bloodstone bloodstream bloodsuckers bloodthirstier bloodthirstiest bloodthirsty bloodworm bloody bloodymindedness bloom bloomed bloomer bloomers blooming blooms bloomy blossom blossomed blossoming blossoms blot blotch blotched blotches blotchy blots blotted blotter blotting blouse blouses blow blowdried blowdrying blowed blower blowers blowfly blowing blowlamp blown blowpipe blowpipes blows blowtorch blowtorches blowup blubber blubbered blubbering bludgeon bludgeoned bludgeoning bludgeons blue bluebell bluebells blueberries blueberry bluebird bluebirds blueblooded bluebottle bluebottles bluecollar blueish bluemoon blueness bluenile blueprint blueprints bluer blues bluest bluesy bluff bluffed bluffer bluffers bluffing bluffs bluish blunder blunderbuss blundered blundering blunderings blunders blunt blunted blunter bluntest blunting bluntly bluntness blunts blur blurb blurbs blurred blurring blurry blurs blurt blurted blurting blurts blush blushed blusher blushers blushes blushing blushingly bluster blustered blustering blusters blustery bmus boa boar board boarded boarder boarders boardgames boarding boardings boardroom boardrooms boards boars boas boast boasted boaster boasters boastful boastfully boastfulness boasting boasts boat boated boater boaters boathouse boathouses boating boatload boatman boatmen boats boatswain bob bobbed bobbies bobbin bobbing bobbins bobble bobbles bobby bobcat bobs bobsled bobtail bobtails bode boded bodes bodice bodices bodied bodies bodiless bodily boding bodkin body bodybuilding bodyguard bodyguards bodywork boer boers boerwar boffin boffins bog bogey bogeyman bogeymen bogeys bogged boggiest bogging boggle boggled boggles boggling bogglingly boggy bogies bogs bogus bogy bohemian boil boiled boiler boilermakers boilers boiling boils boisterous boisterously bola bold bolder boldest boldface boldly boldness bole bolero boleyn bolivia bollard bollards bologna bolster bolstered bolstering bolsters bolt bolted bolting bolts bomb bombard bombarded bombardier bombarding bombardment bombardments bombards bombast bombastic bombasts bombay bombed bomber bombers bombing bombings bombs bombshell bonanza bonanzas bonbon bonbons bond bondage bonded bondholders bonding bondings bonds bone boned boneless bonemeal bones boney bonfire bonfires bong bongs bonier boniest bonn bonnet bonneted bonnets bonnie bonniest bonny bonobo bonsai bonus bonuses bony boo boobies booboo booby boobytrap boobytrapped boobytraps booed boohoo booing book bookable bookbinder bookbinders bookbinding bookcase bookcases booked bookends bookers bookie bookies booking bookings bookish bookkeeper bookkeeping booklet booklets bookmaker bookmakers bookmaking bookmark bookmarks books bookseller booksellers bookshelf bookshelves bookshop bookshops bookstall bookstalls bookwork bookworm bookworms boom boomed boomer boomerang boomeranging boomerangs booming booms boon boons boor boorish boorishly boorishness boors boos boost boosted booster boosters boosting boosts boot booted bootees booth booths booting bootlace bootlaces bootleg bootless bootprints boots bootstrap bootstraps booty booze boozed boozer boozers boozes bop bops boracic borate borates borax bordeaux border bordered borderer bordering borderline borders bore boreal bored boredom borehole boreholes borer borers bores boring boringly born bornagain borne borneo boron borough boroughs borrow borrowable borrowed borrower borrowers borrowing borrowings borrows borstal borstals bosnia bosom bosoms boson bosons boss bossed bosses bossier bossiest bossiness bossing bossy boston bosun botanic botanical botanically botanist botanists botany botch botched both bother bothered bothering bothers bothersome bothy botswana bottle bottled bottlefed bottlefeed bottleneck bottlenecks bottler bottles bottling bottom bottomed bottoming bottomless bottommost bottoms botulism boudoir boudoirs bouffant bougainvillea bough boughs bought boulder boulders boulevard boulevards bounce bounced bouncer bouncers bounces bouncier bounciest bouncing bouncy bound boundaries boundary bounded boundedness bounder bounders bounding boundless bounds bounteous bounties bountiful bountifully bounty bouquet bouquets bourbon bourbons bourgeois bourgeoisie bout boutique boutiques bouts bovine bow bowdlerisation bowdlerised bowdlerising bowed bowel bowels bower bowers bowie bowing bowl bowlder bowled bowler bowlers bowlines bowling bowls bowman bowmen bows bowsprit bowstring box boxed boxer boxers boxes boxful boxing boxoffice boxtops boxwood boxy boy boycott boycotted boycotting boycotts boyfriend boyfriends boyhood boyish boyishly boys boyscout bra brabble brabbled brabbles brace braced bracelet bracelets bracer braces brachiopods bracing bracingly bracken bracket bracketed bracketing brackets brackish bradawl bradycardia brag braggart braggarts bragged bragging brags brahman brahms braid braided braiding braids brail braille brain braincell braincells brainchild braindamaged braindead brainier brainless brainlessly brainlessness brainpower brains brainstorm brainstorming brainstorms brainteasers brainteasing brainwash brainwashed brainwashing brainwave brainwaves brainy braise braised brake braked brakes braking bramble brambles bran branch branched branches branching branchy brand branded brandies branding brandish brandished brandishes brandishing brands brandy brans bras brash brasher brashly brashness brasiers brasil brasilia brass brasserie brasses brassiere brassy brat brats bratty bravado brave braved bravely braver bravery braves bravest braving bravo braw brawl brawled brawler brawling brawls brawn brawnier brawniest brawny bray brayed braying brays braze brazen brazened brazenly brazenness brazier braziers brazil brazing breach breached breaches breaching bread breadandbutter breadboard breadboards breadcrumbs breaded breadfruit breadline breads breadth breadths breadwinner breadwinners break breakable breakage breakages breakaway breakaways breakdown breakdowns breaker breakers breakfast breakfasted breakfasting breakfasts breakin breaking breakins breakneck breakout breakpoint breakpoints breaks breakthrough breakthroughs breakup breakups breakwater breakwaters bream breast breastbone breasted breastfeed breastfeeding breasting breastplate breasts breaststroke breath breathable breathalysed breathalyser breathalysers breathe breathed breather breathes breathing breathings breathingspace breathless breathlessly breathlessness breaths breathtaking breathtakingly breathy breccias brecciated bred breech breeches breed breeder breeders breeding breeds breeze breezed breezes breezier breeziest breezily breezing breezy brethren breton breviary brevity brew brewage brewed brewer breweries brewers brewery brewing brews briar bribe bribed briber bribers bribery bribes bribing bricabrac brick brickbat brickbats bricked bricking bricklayer bricklayers bricklaying brickred bricks brickwork bridal bridals bride bridegroom bridegrooms brides bridesmaid bridesmaids bridge bridgebuilding bridged bridgehead bridges bridging bridle bridled bridles bridleway bridleways bridling brief briefcase briefcases briefed briefer briefest briefing briefings briefly briefs briers brig brigade brigades brigadier brigadiers brigand brigands bright brighten brightened brightening brightens brighter brightest brighteyed brightly brightness brightnesses brighton brilliance brilliancy brilliant brilliantly brim brimmed brimming brims brimstone brindled brine brines bring bringer bringing brings brink brinkmanship brinks briny brio brioche briquettes brisbane brisk brisker briskest briskly briskness bristle bristled bristles bristling bristly brit britain british britons brittle brittleness broach broached broaches broaching broad broadband broadcast broadcaster broadcasters broadcasting broadcasts broaden broadened broadening broadens broader broadest broadleaved broadloom broadly broadminded broadmindedness broadness broadsheet broadsheets broadside broadsides broadsword broadswords broadway brocade brocaded broccoli brochure brochures brogue brogues broil broiled broiler broiling broils broke broken brokenhearted brokenly broker brokerage brokered brokers broking bromide bromides bromine bronchi bronchial bronchitis bronco brontosaurus bronze bronzed bronzes brooch brooches brood brooded broodiness brooding broodingly broods broody brook brooklyn brooks broom brooms broomstick broomsticks broth brothel brothels brother brotherhood brotherinlaw brotherly brothers brothersinlaw broths brought brouhaha brow browbeat browbeaten browbeating brown browned browner brownest brownie brownies browning brownish brownness browns brows browse browsed browser browsers browses browsing bruise bruised bruiser bruisers bruises bruising brunch brunches brunei brunet brunets brunette brunettes brunt brunts brush brushed brushes brushing brushoff brushup brushwood brushwork brushy brusque brusquely brusqueness brussels brutal brutalisation brutalise brutalised brutalising brutalism brutalities brutality brutally brute brutes brutish brutishness brutus bub bubble bubbled bubblegum bubbles bubblier bubbliest bubbling bubbly bubonic buccaneer buccaneering buccaneers buck bucked bucket bucketful bucketfuls bucketing buckets bucking buckle buckled buckler bucklers buckles buckling buckminsterfullerene buckpassing bucks buckshot buckskin bucolic bud budapest budded buddhism buddhist buddies budding buddings buddy budge budged budgerigar budget budgetary budgeted budgeting budgets budgie budgies budging buds buff buffalo buffer buffered buffering buffers buffet buffeted buffeting buffetings buffets buffing buffoon buffoonery buffoons buffs bug bugbear bugbears bugeyed bugged bugger buggered buggering buggers buggery buggies bugging buggy bugle bugler buglers bugles bugs build builder builders building buildings builds buildup buildups built builtin builtup bulb bulbous bulbs bulgaria bulge bulged bulges bulging bulgy bulimia bulimic bulk bulkhead bulkheads bulkier bulkiest bulks bulky bull bulldog bulldogs bulldoze bulldozed bulldozer bulldozers bulldozing bullet bulletin bulletins bulletproof bullets bullfight bullfighting bullfinch bullfrog bullied bullies bullion bullish bullock bullocks bulls bully bullying bulrushes bulwark bulwarks bum bumble bumbled bumbler bumblers bumbles bumbling bump bumped bumper bumpers bumpier bumpiest bumping bumpkin bumpkins bumps bumptious bumpy bums bun bunch bunched bunches bunching bundle bundled bundles bundling bung bungalow bungalows bungee bungle bungled bungler bunglers bungles bungling bunion bunions bunk bunked bunker bunkered bunkers bunks bunkum bunnies bunny buns bunting bunyan buoy buoyancy buoyant buoyantly buoyed buoys bur burble burbled burbles burbling burden burdened burdening burdens burdensome burdock bureau bureaucracies bureaucracy bureaucrat bureaucratic bureaucratically bureaucratisation bureaucrats bureaus bureaux burette burg burgeon burgeoned burgeoning burgeons burger burgers burghers burglar burglaries burglars burglary burgle burgled burgles burgling burgundy burial burials buried buries burlesque burlesquing burlier burliest burly burma burmese burn burned burner burners burning burnings burnished burnishing burns burnt burp burped burping burps burr burrow burrowed burrowing burrows burs bursar bursaries bursars bursary burst bursted bursting bursts burundi bury burying bus buses bush bushel bushels bushes bushfire bushier bushiest bushiness bushing bushland bushman bushmen bushy busied busier busies busiest busily business businesses businesslike businessman businessmen businesswoman busk busker buskers busking busman busmen bussed bussing bust bustard bustards busted busters bustier busting bustle bustled bustles bustling busts busty busy busybodies busybody busying but butane butcher butchered butchering butchers butchery butler butlers buts butt butted butter buttercup buttercups buttered butterfat butterflies butterfly buttering buttermilk butters butterscotch buttery butting buttock buttocks button buttoned buttonhole buttonholed buttonholes buttoning buttons buttress buttressed buttresses buttressing butts buxom buy buyer buyers buying buyout buys buzz buzzard buzzards buzzed buzzer buzzers buzzes buzzing buzzwords by bye byebye byelaw byelaws byelection byelections byes bygone bygones bylaw bylaws byline bypass bypassed bypasses bypassing bypath bypaths byproduct byproducts bystander bystanders byte bytes byway byways byword cab cabal cabals cabaret cabarets cabbage cabbages cabby cabin cabinet cabinetmaker cabinets cabins cable cabled cables cableway cabling cabman cabmen caboodle caboose cabriolet cabs cacao cache cached caches cachet caching cackle cackled cackles cackling cacophonous cacophony cacti cactus cactuses cad cadaver cadaverous cadavers caddie caddied caddies caddy caddying cade cadence cadences cadenza cadenzas cadet cadets cadge cadged cadger cadges cadmium cads caesar cafe cafes cafeteria cafeterias caftan caftans cage caged cages cagey cagiest caging cagoule cagoules cagy cahoots caiman caimans cain cairn cairns cairo cajole cajoled cajoling cake caked cakes caking calamities calamitous calamitously calamity calcareous calcification calcified calcify calcite calcium calculable calculate calculated calculatedly calculates calculating calculation calculations calculative calculator calculators calculus calcutta caldera caldron caldrons calendar calendars calf calibrate calibrated calibrates calibrating calibration calibrations calibrator calibrators calibre calico calif california caliper calipers caliph call callable called caller callers callgirl callgirls calligrapher calligraphic calligraphy calling callings calliper callipers callisthenics callous calloused callously callousness callow callowness calls callup callus calm calmed calmer calmest calming calmly calmness calms calorie calories calorific calorimeter calorimeters calorimetry calory calumniate calumnies calumny calvary calve calves calvin calving calypso cam camaraderie camber cambodia camcorder camcorders came camel camelhair camelot camels cameo camera cameraman cameramen cameras camerawork camisole camomile camouflage camouflaged camouflages camouflaging camp campaign campaigned campaigner campaigners campaigning campaigns campanile campanological campanologist campanology camped camper campers campfire campfires camphor camping camps campsite campsites campus campuses cams camshaft can canaan canada canadian canal canalisation canals canape canapes canard canaries canary canberra cancan cancel cancellation cancellations cancelled cancelling cancels cancer cancerous cancers candelabra candelas candid candidacy candidate candidates candidature candidatures candidly candies candle candlelight candlelit candlepower candles candlestick candlesticks candour candy cane caned canes canine canines caning canings canister canisters cannabis canned cannel cannery cannes cannibal cannibalise cannibalised cannibalising cannibalism cannibalistic cannibals cannily canning cannon cannonball cannonballs cannoned cannoning cannons cannot cannula canny canoe canoed canoeing canoeist canoeists canoes canon canonic canonical canonically canonisation canonise canonised canonry canons canopener canopied canopies canopy cans cant cantaloupe cantankerous cantata cantatas canted canteen canteens canter cantered cantering canters canticle canticles cantilever cantilevered canton cantons cantor canvas canvased canvases canvass canvassed canvasser canvassers canvasses canvassing canyon canyons cap capabilities capability capable capably capacious capacitance capacities capacitive capacitor capacitors capacity caparisoned cape caped caper capered capering capers capes capetown capillaries capillary capita capital capitalisation capitalise capitalised capitalises capitalising capitalism capitalist capitalistic capitalists capitally capitals capitate capitation capitol capitulate capitulated capitulates capitulating capitulation capped capping cappuccino capri caprice caprices capricious capriciously capriciousness capriole capris caps capsize capsized capsizes capsizing capstan capstans capsule capsules captain captaincy captained captaining captains caption captioned captions captious captivate captivated captivating captivation captive captives captivity captor captors capture captured captures capturing capybara car carabinieri caracal caracals carafe caramel caramelised caramels carapace carat carats caravan caravanning caravans caravel caraway carbide carbine carbines carbohydrate carbohydrates carbolic carbon carbonaceous carbonate carbonated carbonates carbonic carboniferous carbonise carbons carbonyl carborundum carboxyl carbuncle carbuncles carburettor carburettors carcase carcases carcass carcasses carcinogen carcinogenesis carcinogenic carcinogens carcinoma carcinomas card cardboard carded cardholders cardiac cardiff cardigan cardigans cardinal cardinality cardinals carding cardioid cardiologist cardiology cardiopulmonary cardiovascular cards care cared career careered careering careerism careerist careerists careers carefree careful carefully carefulness careless carelessly carelessness carer carers cares caress caressed caresses caressing caressingly caretaker caretakers carets careworn cargo caribou caricature caricatured caricatures caricaturisation caries caring carmine carnage carnages carnal carnality carnally carnation carnations carnival carnivals carnivore carnivores carnivorous carnivorousness carol carols carotene carotid carotin carouse carousel carousing carp carpal carpenter carpenters carpentry carpet carpeted carpeting carpets carping carport carports carps carrel carriage carriages carriageway carriageways carried carrier carriers carries carrion carrot carrots carroty carry carrycot carrying cars carsick cart carted cartel cartels carter carthorses cartilage carting cartload cartloads cartographer cartographers cartographic cartography carton cartons cartoon cartoonist cartoonists cartoons cartouche cartridge cartridges carts cartwheel cartwheels carve carved carver carvers carvery carves carving carvings caryatids casanova cascade cascaded cascades cascading cascara case casebook cased caseload caseloads casement casements cases casework cash cashbox cashed cashes cashew cashier cashiers cashing cashless cashmere casing casings casino cask casket caskets casks cassava casserole casseroles cassette cassettes cassock cassocks cassowary cast castanet castanets castaway castaways caste castellated caster casters castes castigate castigated castigates castigating casting castings castiron castle castled castles castling castoff castoffs castor castors castrate castrated castrating castration castrato casts casual casually casualness casuals casualties casualty casuistry cat cataclysm cataclysmic catacomb catacombs catalepsy catalogue catalogued cataloguer cataloguers catalogues cataloguing catalyse catalysed catalyses catalysing catalysis catalyst catalysts catalytic catamaran catamarans catanddog catapult catapulted catapulting catapults cataract cataracts catarrh catastrophe catastrophes catastrophic catastrophically catatonic catcalls catch catched catcher catchers catches catchier catchiest catching catchment catchphrase catchphrases catchword catchwords catchy catechism catechisms catechist catechists categorical categorically categories categorisation categorisations categorise categorised categorises categorising category cater catered caterer caterers catering caterpillar caterpillars caters caterwaul caterwauls catfish catgut catguts catharsis cathartic cathedral cathedrals catheter catheterisation catheters cathode cathodes catholic cation cationic cations catlike catnap catnip cats catsuit cattery cattle catwalk catwalks caucus caucuses caudal caught cauldron cauldrons cauliflower cauliflowers caulking causal causality causally causation causative cause caused causes causeway causeways causing caustic caustically caustics cauterise cauterising caution cautionary cautioned cautioning cautions cautious cautiously cautiousness cavalcade cavalier cavalierly cavaliers cavalry cavalryman cavalrymen cave caveat caveats caved cavein caveman cavemen caver cavern cavernous caverns cavers caves caviar caviare caviars caving cavitation cavities cavity cavort cavorted cavorting cavorts caw cawing cayman caymans cease ceased ceasefire ceasefires ceaseless ceaselessly ceases ceasing cedar cedars cedarwood cede ceded cedilla ceding ceilidh ceilidhs ceiling ceilings celandine celeb celebrant celebrants celebrate celebrated celebrates celebrating celebration celebrations celebratory celebrities celebrity celeriac celery celestial celestially celibacy celibate cell cellar cellars cellist cellists cello cellophane cells cellular cellulite celluloid cellulose celsius celtic cement cemented cementing cements cemeteries cemetery cenotaph censer censor censored censorial censoring censorious censoriousness censors censorship censure censured censures censuring census censuses cent centaur centaurs centenarians centenary centennial centigrade centime centimes centimetre centimetres centipede centipedes central centralisation centralise centralised centraliser centralisers centralises centralising centralism centralist centrality centrally centre centred centrefold centrefolds centreing centrepiece centrepieces centres centric centrifugal centrifugally centrifugation centrifuge centrifuged centrifuges centrifuging centring centripetal centrist centrists centroid centroids cents centuries centurion centurions century cephalopods ceramic ceramics ceramist cereal cereals cerebellum cerebral cerebrum ceremonial ceremonially ceremonials ceremonies ceremonious ceremoniously ceremony ceres cerise certain certainly certainties certainty certifiable certifiably certificate certificated certificates certification certified certifies certify certifying certitude certitudes cervical cervix cess cessation cessations cession cesspit cesspool cesspools cetacean ceylon chacha chad chafe chafed chafes chaff chaffed chaffinch chaffinches chaffing chafing chagrin chagrined chain chained chaining chains chainsaw chainsaws chainsmoke chainsmoked chainsmoking chair chaired chairing chairlift chairman chairmanship chairmanships chairmen chairperson chairpersons chairs chairwoman chairwomen chaldron chalet chalets chalice chalices chalk chalked chalking chalks chalky challenge challenged challenger challengers challenges challenging challengingly chamber chambered chamberlain chamberlains chambermaid chambermaids chamberpot chamberpots chambers chameleon chameleons chamfer chamfered chamois chamomile champ champagne champagnes champing champion championed championing champions championship championships champs chance chanced chancel chancellery chancellor chancellors chancellorship chancer chancery chances chancier chanciest chancing chancy chandelier chandeliers chandler change changeability changeable changed changeless changeling changeover changeovers changer changers changes changing channel channelled channelling channels chant chanted chanter chanteuse chanting chantings chantries chantry chants chaos chaotic chaotically chap chapel chapels chaperon chaperone chaperoned chaperones chaplain chaplaincy chaplains chaplain chapman chapped chapping chaps chapter chapters char charabanc character characterful characterisation characterisations characterise characterised characterises characterising characteristic characteristically characteristics characterless characters charade charades charcoal charcuterie chared charge chargeable charged charger chargers charges charging chariot charioteer charioteers chariots charisma charismas charismatic charismatically charismatics charitable charitably charities charity charlady charlatan charlatans charles charlie charm charmed charmer charmers charming charmingly charmless charms charon charred charring chars chart charted charter chartered chartering charters charting chartists charts charwoman chary chase chased chaser chasers chases chasing chasm chasms chassis chaste chastely chastened chastening chastise chastised chastisement chastises chastising chastity chat chateau chats chatted chattel chattels chatter chatterbox chattered chatterer chattering chatters chattily chatting chatty chauffeur chauffeured chauffeurs chauvinism chauvinist chauvinistic chauvinists cheap cheapen cheapened cheapening cheapens cheaper cheapest cheapish cheaply cheapness cheapskates cheat cheated cheater cheaters cheating cheats check checked checker checkered checkering checkers checkin checking checklist checklists checkmate checkout checkouts checkpoint checkpoints checks checkup checkups cheddar cheek cheekbone cheekbones cheeked cheekier cheekiest cheekily cheeking cheeks cheeky cheep cheeping cheer cheered cheerful cheerfully cheerfulness cheerier cheeriest cheerily cheering cheerio cheerleader cheerleaders cheerless cheerlessness cheers cheery cheese cheeseboard cheeseburger cheeseburgers cheesecake cheesecloth cheesemaking cheeses cheesy cheetah cheetahs chef chefs chekov chemic chemical chemically chemicals chemiluminescence chemiluminescent chemise chemist chemistry chemists chemosynthesis chemotherapeutic chemotherapy cheque chequebook chequebooks chequer chequerboard chequered chequering chequers cheques cherish cherished cherishes cherishing cheroot cheroots cherries cherry cherryred cherub cherubic cherubim cherubs chess chessboard chessboards chessmen chest chested chester chesterfield chestnut chestnuts chests chesty chevalier chevron chevrons chew chewable chewed chewer chewier chewiest chewing chews chewy chic chicago chicane chicanery chick chicken chickens chicks chicory chide chided chides chiding chief chiefly chiefs chieftain chieftains chiffon chihuahua chihuahuas chilblain chilblains child childbearing childbirth childcare childhood childhoods childish childishly childishness childless childlessness childlike childly childminders childproof children chilean chili chill chilled chiller chillers chilli chillier chillies chilliest chilliness chilling chillingly chills chilly chimaera chimaerical chime chimed chimera chimeras chimerical chimes chiming chimney chimneys chimp chimpanzee chimpanzees chimps chin china chinese chink chinked chinking chinks chinless chinoiserie chins chintz chintzy chip chipboard chipmunk chipped chipping chippings chips chiral chiropodist chiropody chiropractic chiropractor chiropractors chirp chirped chirping chirps chirpy chirruped chisel chiseled chiselled chiselling chisels chit chits chivalric chivalrous chivalrously chivalry chives chivvied chivvy chivvying chlamydia chlorate chloride chlorinated chlorination chlorine chlorofluorocarbon chlorofluorocarbons chloroform chloroformed chloroforming chlorophyll chloroquine chock chockablock chockfull chocks chocolate chocolates choice choices choicest choir choirboy choirboys choirmaster choirs choke choked choker chokes choking cholera cholesterol choline chomp chomped chomping chomps choose chooser choosers chooses choosey choosier choosing choosy chop chopin chopped chopper choppers choppier choppiest chopping choppy chops chopsticks choral chorale chorales chorals chord chordal chords chore chorea choreographed choreographer choreographers choreographic choreographing choreography chores chorister choristers chortle chortled chortles chortling chorus chorused choruses chose chosen choughs chow christ christen christened christening christenings christian chroma chromatic chromaticism chromatograph chromatographic chromatography chrome chromed chromite chromium chromosomal chromosome chromosomes chronic chronically chronicle chronicled chronicler chroniclers chronicles chronicling chronograph chronological chronologically chronologies chronology chronometer chronometric chrysalis chrysanthemum chrysanthemums chubbiness chubby chuck chucked chucking chuckle chuckled chuckles chuckling chucks chuff chuffed chug chugged chugging chugs chum chump chums chunk chunkier chunks chunky chunnel chuntering church churches churchgoer churchgoers churchman churchmen churchwarden churchwardens churchyard churchyards churlish churlishly churlishness churn churned churning churns chute chutes chutney chutzpah cicada cicadas cicero cider ciders cigar cigaret cigarette cigarettes cigars cilia cilium cinch cinder cinders cine cinema cinemas cinematic cinematographer cinematography cinnamon cipher ciphered ciphers circa circadian circle circled circles circlet circlets circling circuit circuitous circuitry circuits circulant circular circularise circularised circularity circularly circulars circulate circulated circulates circulating circulation circulations circulatory circumcise circumcised circumcision circumference circumferences circumferential circumflex circumflexes circumlocution circumlocutions circumlocutory circumnavigate circumnavigated circumnavigates circumnavigation circumnavigational circumscribe circumscribed circumscribing circumspect circumspection circumspectly circumstance circumstances circumstantial circumstantially circumvent circumventable circumvented circumventing circumvention circumventions circumvents circus circuses cirrhosis cirrhotic cirrus cist cistern cisterns citadel citadels citation citations cite cited cites cithers cities citing citizen citizenry citizens citizenship citrate citrates citric citron citrons citrus citruses cittern city cityscape civic civics civies civil civilian civilians civilisation civilisations civilise civilised civilising civilities civility civilly clacking clad cladding claim claimable claimant claimants claimed claiming claims clairvoyance clairvoyant clairvoyants clam clamber clambered clambering clambers clammed clamming clammy clamorous clamorously clamour clamoured clamouring clamours clamp clampdown clamped clamping clamps clams clan clandestine clandestinely clang clanged clangers clanging clank clanked clanking clannish clans clansmen clap clapped clapper clappers clapping claps claptrap claret clarets clarification clarifications clarified clarifies clarify clarifying clarinet clarinets clarinettist clarion clarity clash clashed clashes clashing clasp clasped clasper clasping clasps class classed classes classic classical classically classicism classicist classicists classics classier classiest classifiable classification classifications classificatory classified classifier classifiers classifies classify classifying classing classless classlessness classmate classmates classroom classrooms classy clatter clattered clattering clatters clausal clause clauses claustrophobia claustrophobic clavichord clavicle claw clawed clawing claws clay clayey claymore claymores clays clean cleancut cleaned cleaner cleaners cleanest cleaning cleanliness cleanliving cleanly cleanness cleans cleanse cleansed cleanser cleanses cleanshaven cleansing cleanup clear clearance clearances clearcut cleared clearer clearest clearheaded clearing clearings clearly clearness clears clearsighted clearup clearups clearway cleat cleavage cleavages cleave cleaved cleaver cleavers cleaves cleaving clef cleft clefts cleg clematis clemency clement clench clenched clenches clenching clergies clergy clergyman clergymen cleric clerical clerically clerics clerk clerks clever cleverer cleverest cleverly cleverness cliche cliches click clicked clicking clicks client clientele clients cliff cliffhanger cliffs climactic climate climates climatic climatically climatological climatologists climatology climax climaxed climaxes climaxing climb climbable climbdown climbed climber climbers climbing climbs climes clinch clinched clinches clinching cling clingers clinging clings clinic clinical clinically clinician clinicians clinics clink clinked clinker clinking clip clipboard clipboards clipped clipper clippers clipping clippings clips clique cliques cliquey clitoral clitoris cloaca cloak cloakanddagger cloaked cloaking cloakroom cloakrooms cloaks clobber clock clocked clocking clockmaker clocks clockwise clockwork clod clods clog clogged clogging clogs cloister cloistered cloisters clonal clone cloned clones cloning closable close closed closedcircuit closeknit closely closeness closer closers closes closest closet closeted closets closeup closeups closing closings closure closures clot cloth clothe clothed clothes clothespeg clothespegs clothier clothiers clothing cloths clots clotted clotting cloud cloudburst cloudbursts clouded cloudier cloudiest cloudiness clouding cloudless clouds cloudscape cloudscapes cloudy clout clouted clouts clove cloven clover cloves clown clowned clowning clownish clowns cloying cloyingly club clubbed clubbing clubfooted clubhouse clubman clubroom clubs cluck clucked clucking clucks clue clued cluedup clueless clues clumber clump clumped clumping clumps clumpy clumsier clumsiest clumsily clumsiness clumsy clung cluster clustered clustering clusters clutch clutched clutches clutching clutter cluttered cluttering clutters coach coached coaches coaching coachload coachloads coachman coachmen coachwork coacted coaction coacts coagulate coagulated coagulation coal coalblack coalesce coalesced coalescence coalesces coalescing coalface coalfield coalfields coalition coalitions coalminers coals coapts coarse coarsely coarseness coarsens coarser coarsest coast coastal coasted coaster coasters coastguard coastguards coasting coastlands coastline coastlines coasts coat coated coathanger coating coatings coats coauthor coauthored coauthoring coauthors coax coaxed coaxes coaxial coaxing coaxingly cob cobalt cobble cobbled cobbler cobblers cobbles cobblestones cobbling coble cobra cobras cobs cobweb cobwebbed cobwebby cobwebs coca cocain cocaine cochlea cochlear cock cockatoo cockatoos cockatrice cockatrices cockcrow cocked cockerel cockerels cockeyed cockier cockiest cockiness cocking cockle cockles cockney cockneys cockpit cockpits cockroach cockroaches cocks cockshies cocksure cocktail cocktails cocky cocoa coconut coconuts cocoon cocooned cocoons cod coda coddle coddling code codebreaker coded codeine codename codenamed coder coders codes codeword codewords codex codfish codices codicil codicils codification codifications codified codifies codify codifying coding codling codpiece cods coefficient coefficients coelenterates coerce coerced coercer coerces coercible coercing coercion coercions coercive coercively coeval coexist coexisted coexistence coexistent coexisting coexists coextensive coffee coffees coffer cofferdam cofferdams coffers coffin coffins cog cogency cogent cogently cogitate cogitated cogitating cogitation cogitations cogitative cognac cognacs cognate cognates cognisance cognisant cognition cognitive cognitively cognizance cognizant cognoscenti cogs cohabit cohabitation cohabitees cohabiting cohere cohered coherence coherency coherent coherently coheres cohesion cohesive cohesively cohesiveness cohort cohorts coiffure coil coiled coiling coils coin coinage coinages coincide coincided coincidence coincidences coincident coincidental coincidentally coincides coinciding coined coiner coiners coining coins coital coitus coke col cola colander colas cold coldblooded coldbloodedly colder coldest coldhearted coldish coldly coldness colds coldwar cole coleslaw colitis collaborate collaborated collaborates collaborating collaboration collaborationist collaborations collaborative collaboratively collaborator collaborators collage collagen collages collapse collapsed collapses collapsible collapsing collar collarbone collared collaring collarless collars collate collated collateral collaterally collates collating collation colleague colleagues collect collectability collectable collectables collected collecting collection collections collective collectively collectives collectivisation collectivism collectivist collectivity collector collectors collects college colleges collegial collegiate collide collided collides colliding collie collier collieries colliers colliery collies collimation collimator collinear collins collision collisional collisions collocated collocation collocational collocations colloid colloidal colloids colloquia colloquial colloquialism colloquialisms colloquially colloquium collude colluded colluding collusion colobus cologne colon colonel colonels colonial colonialism colonialist colonialists colonials colonic colonies colonisation colonisations colonise colonised colonisers colonising colonist colonists colonnade colonnaded colonnades colons colony colossal colossally colossus colostomies colostomy colour colourant colourants colouration colourblind coloure colourful colourfully colouring colourings colourisation colourise colourised colourising colourless colours coloury cols colt colts columbus column columnar columned columnist columnists columns coma comas comatose comb combat combatant combatants combated combating combative combativeness combats combed comber combination combinations combinatorial combine combined combines combing combining combs combusted combustible combustibles combustion combusts come comeback comedian comedians comedies comedown comedy comeliness comely comer comers comes comestible comestibles comet cometary comets comfort comfortable comfortably comforted comforter comforters comforting comfortingly comforts comfy comic comical comically comics coming comings comity comma command commandant commanded commandeer commandeered commandeering commander commanders commanding commandingly commandment commandments commando commands commas commemorate commemorated commemorates commemorating commemoration commemorations commemorative commence commenced commencement commences commencing commend commendable commendably commendation commendations commended commending commends commensurate commensurately comment commentaries commentary commentate commentating commentator commentators commented commenter commenting comments commerce commercial commercialisation commercialise commercialised commercialism commercially commercials commiserate commiserated commiserating commiseration commiserations commissar commissariat commissars commission commissionaire commissioned commissioner commissioners commissioning commissions commit commitment commitments commits committal committed committee committees committing commode commodes commodious commodities commodity commodore commodores common commonalities commonality commoner commoners commonest commonlaw commonly commonness commonplace commonplaces commons commonsense commonsensical commonwealth commotion commotions communal communality communally commune communed communes communicable communicant communicants communicate communicated communicates communicating communication communications communicative communicativeness communicator communicators communing communion communions communique communiques communism communist communists communitarian communities community commutation commutative commutativity commutator commute commuted commuter commuters commutes commuting compact compacted compacting compaction compactions compactly compactness compacts companies companion companionable companionably companions companionship company comparability comparable comparably comparative comparatively comparatives comparator comparators compare compared compares comparing comparison comparisons compartment compartmentalisation compartmentalised compartmentalising compartments compass compassed compasses compassion compassionate compassionately compatibilities compatibility compatible compatibles compatibly compatriot compatriots compel compelled compelling compellingly compels compendia compendium compendiums compensate compensated compensates compensating compensation compensations compensator compensatory compere compete competed competence competences competencies competency competent competently competes competing competition competitions competitive competitively competitiveness competitor competitors compilable compilation compilations compile compiled compiler compilers compiles compiling complacency complacent complacently complain complainant complainants complained complainer complaining complainingly complains complaint complaints complaisant complement complementarity complementary complemented complementing complements completable complete completed completely completeness completes completing completion completions complex complexes complexion complexioned complexions complexities complexity complexly compliance compliant complicate complicated complicates complicating complication complications complicit complicity complied complies compliment complimentary complimented complimenting compliments complot comply complying component components comport compose composed composedly composer composers composes composing composite composites composition compositional compositions compositor compositors compost composts composure compound compounded compounding compounds comprehend comprehended comprehending comprehends comprehensibility comprehensible comprehensibly comprehension comprehensive comprehensively comprehensiveness comprehensives compress compressed compresses compressibility compressible compressing compression compressional compressions compressive compressor compressors comprise comprised comprises comprising compromise compromised compromises compromising comptroller compulsion compulsions compulsive compulsively compulsorily compulsory compunction computability computable computably computation computational computationally computations compute computed computer computerisation computerise computerised computerising computerliterate computers computes computing comrade comradeinarms comradely comrades comradeship con conakry concatenate concatenated concatenates concatenating concatenation concatenations concave concavity conceal concealed concealing concealment conceals concede conceded concedes conceding conceit conceited conceits conceivability conceivable conceivably conceive conceived conceives conceiving concentrate concentrated concentrates concentrating concentration concentrations concentrator concentrators concentric concept conception conceptions concepts conceptual conceptualisation conceptualisations conceptualise conceptualised conceptualising conceptually concern concerned concernedly concerning concerns concert concerted concertgoers concerti concertina concerto concerts concession concessional concessionary concessions concierge conciliar conciliate conciliating conciliation conciliator conciliatory concise concisely conciseness conclave conclaves conclude concluded concludes concluding conclusion conclusions conclusive conclusively concoct concocted concocting concoction concoctions concocts concomitant concomitantly concord concordance concordances concordant concordat concords concourse concourses concrete concreted concretely concreteness concretes concreting concretions concubine concubines concur concurred concurrence concurrency concurrent concurrently concurring concurs concuss concussed concussion condemn condemnable condemnation condemnations condemnatory condemned condemning condemns condensate condensation condensations condense condensed condenser condensers condenses condensing condescend condescended condescending condescendingly condescends condescension condiment condiments condition conditional conditionality conditionally conditionals conditioned conditioner conditioners conditioning conditions condole condoled condolence condolences condoles condonable condone condoned condones condoning condor condors conducive conduct conductance conducted conducting conduction conductive conductivities conductivity conductor conductors conductress conducts conduit conduits cone coned cones confabulate confection confectioner confectioners confectionery confectionist confections confederacy confederate confederates confederation confederations confer conference conferences conferencing conferment conferred conferring confers confess confessed confesses confessing confession confessional confessionals confessions confessor confessors confetti confidant confidante confidantes confidants confide confided confidence confidences confident confidential confidentiality confidentially confidently confides confiding confidingly configurable configuration configurations configure configured configures configuring confine confined confinement confinements confines confining confirm confirmation confirmations confirmatory confirmed confirming confirms confiscate confiscated confiscates confiscating confiscation confiscations confiscatory conflagration conflagrations conflated conflates conflating conflation conflict conflicted conflicting conflictingly conflicts conflictual confluence confluent confocal conform conformable conformal conformance conformation conformational conformed conforming conformism conformist conformists conformity conforms confound confounded confoundedly confounding confounds confront confrontation confrontational confrontations confronted confronting confronts confusable confuse confused confusedly confuser confuses confusing confusingly confusion confusions conga congeal congealed congealing congeals congenial congeniality congenital congenitally conger congest congested congesting congestion congestive conglomerate conglomerated conglomerates conglomeration congo congratulate congratulated congratulates congratulating congratulation congratulations congratulatory congregate congregated congregating congregation congregational congregations congress congresses congressional congressman congressmen congruence congruences congruency congruent congruential congruity conic conical conics conifer coniferous conifers conjectural conjecture conjectured conjectures conjecturing conjoin conjoined conjoining conjoint conjugacy conjugal conjugate conjugated conjugates conjugating conjugation conjugations conjunct conjunction conjunctions conjunctive conjunctivitis conjunctures conjure conjured conjurer conjurers conjures conjuring conjuror conjurors conjury conk conker conkers conman conmen connect connected connectedness connecting connection connectionless connections connective connectives connectivity connector connectors connects conned connexion connexions connivance connive connived conniving connoisseur connoisseurs connoisseurship connotation connotations connote connoted connotes connoting conquer conquerable conquered conquering conqueror conquerors conquers conquest conquests conquistador conquistadores cons consanguineous consanguinity conscience consciences consciencestricken conscientious conscientiously conscientiousness conscionable conscious consciously consciousness consciousnesses conscript conscripted conscripting conscription conscripts consecrate consecrated consecrating consecration consecutive consecutively consensual consensually consensus consent consented consenting consents consequence consequences consequent consequential consequentially consequently conservation conservationist conservationists conservations conservatism conservative conservatively conservativeness conservatives conservatoire conservator conservatories conservators conservatory conserve conserved conserves conserving consider considerable considerably considerate considerately consideration considerations considered considering considers consign consigned consignee consigning consignment consignments consigns consist consisted consistencies consistency consistent consistently consisting consists consolation consolations console consoled consoles consolidate consolidated consolidates consolidating consolidation consolidations consoling consolingly consonance consonant consonantal consonants consort consorted consortia consorting consortium consorts conspecific conspicuous conspicuously conspicuousness conspiracies conspiracy conspirator conspiratorial conspiratorially conspirators conspire conspired conspires conspiring constable constables constabularies constabulary constancy constant constantly constants constellation constellations consternating consternation constipated constipation constituencies constituency constituent constituents constitute constituted constitutes constituting constitution constitutional constitutionalism constitutionalists constitutionality constitutionally constitutions constitutive constitutively constrain constrained constraining constrains constraint constraints constrict constricted constricting constriction constrictions constrictive constrictor constrictors constricts construct constructable constructed constructing construction constructional constructions constructive constructively constructivism constructivist constructor constructors constructs construe construed construes construing consul consular consulate consulates consuls consult consultancies consultancy consultant consultants consultation consultations consultative consulted consulting consults consumable consumables consume consumed consumer consumerism consumerist consumers consumes consuming consummate consummated consummately consummation consumption consumptions consumptive contact contactable contacted contacting contacts contagion contagious contain containable contained container containers containing containment contains contaminant contaminants contaminate contaminated contaminates contaminating contamination contemplate contemplated contemplates contemplating contemplation contemplations contemplative contemporaneity contemporaneous contemporaneously contemporaries contemporary contempt contemptible contemptibly contemptuous contemptuously contend contended contender contenders contending contends content contented contentedly contenting contention contentions contentious contentiously contentment contents contest contestable contestant contestants contested contesting contests context contexts contextual contextualisation contextually contiguity contiguous contiguously continence continent continental continentals continents contingencies contingency contingent contingently contingents continua continuable continual continually continuance continuation continuations continue continued continues continuing continuities continuity continuous continuously continuum contort contorted contorting contortion contortionist contortions contorts contour contoured contouring contours contra contraband contraception contraceptive contraceptives contract contracted contractible contractile contracting contraction contractions contractor contractors contracts contractual contractually contradict contradicted contradicting contradiction contradictions contradictorily contradictory contradicts contradistinction contraflow contraflows contraindication contraindications contralto contraption contraptions contrapuntal contrarily contrariness contrariwise contrary contras contrast contrasted contrasting contrastingly contrastive contrasts contrasty contravene contravened contravenes contravening contravention contraventions contretemps contribute contributed contributes contributing contribution contributions contributor contributors contributory contrite contritely contrition contrivance contrivances contrive contrived contrives contriving control controllable controlled controller controllers controlling controls controversial controversially controversies controversy controvert controverted contumely contuse contusion contusions conundrum conundrums conurbation conurbations convalesce convalescence convalescent convalescing convect convected convecting convection convectional convective convector convects convene convened convener convenes convenience conveniences convenient conveniently convening convenor convenors convent conventicle convention conventional conventionalism conventionalist conventionality conventionally conventions convents converge converged convergence convergences convergent converges converging conversant conversation conversational conversationalist conversationalists conversationally conversations conversazione converse conversed conversely converses conversing conversion conversions convert converted converter converters convertibility convertible convertibles converting convertor convertors converts convex convexity convey conveyance conveyancing conveyed conveying conveyor conveyors conveys convict convicted convicting conviction convictions convicts convince convinced convinces convincing convincingly convivial conviviality convocation convocations convoluted convolution convolutions convolve convolved convoy convoys convulse convulsed convulses convulsing convulsion convulsions convulsive convulsively cony coo cooed cooing cook cookbook cookbooks cooked cooker cookers cookery cookies cooking cooks cookware cool coolant coolants cooled cooler coolers coolest cooling coolness cools coon coons coop cooped cooper cooperate cooperated cooperates cooperating cooperation cooperative cooperatively cooperatives coopers coops coordinate coordinated coordinates coordinating coordination coordinator coordinators coos cop cope coped copes copied copier copiers copies copilot coping copious copiously coplanar copout copouts copper copperplate coppers coppery coppice coppiced coppices coppicing copra coprocessor coprocessors coproduced coprolite coprophagous cops copse copses copulate copulating copulation copulations copulatory copy copyable copycat copycats copying copyist copyists copyright copyrightable copyrighted copyrighting copyrights copywriter coquette coquettes coquettish coquettishly cor coracle coral coralline corals cord cordage cordate corded cordial cordiality cordially cordials cordillera cordite cordless cordon cordoned cordons cords corduroy corduroys core cores corespondent corgi corgis coriander corinth cork corkage corked corks corkscrew corkscrews corky cormorant cormorants corn corncrake cornea corneal corneas corned corner cornered cornering corners cornerstone cornerstones cornet cornets cornfield cornfields cornflake cornflakes cornflour cornflower cornflowers cornice cornices cornish cornmeal corns cornucopia corny corollaries corollary corona coronal coronaries coronary coronas coronation coronations coroner coroners coronet coronets corpora corporal corporals corporate corporately corporates corporation corporations corporatism corporatist corporeal corporeally corps corpse corpses corpulent corpus corpuscle corpuscles corpuscular corral corralled corrals correct correctable corrected correcting correction correctional corrections corrective correctly correctness corrector correctors corrects correlate correlated correlates correlating correlation correlations correlative correspond corresponded correspondence correspondences correspondent correspondents corresponding correspondingly corresponds corridor corridors corrigenda corroborate corroborated corroborates corroborating corroboration corroborative corroboratory corrode corroded corrodes corroding corrosion corrosive corrugated corrugations corrupt corrupted corruptible corrupting corruption corruptions corruptly corrupts corsage corse corset corsets corsica corslet cortege cortex cortical corticosteroid corticosteroids cortisol cortisone coruscates corvette corvettes cosier cosiest cosily cosine cosines cosiness cosmetic cosmetically cosmetics cosmic cosmical cosmically cosmological cosmologically cosmologies cosmologist cosmologists cosmology cosmonaut cosmonauts cosmopolitan cosmopolitans cosmos cossacks cosset cosseted cossets cost costar costarred costarring costars costcutting costed costeffective costeffectiveness costefficient costing costings costive costless costlier costliest costliness costly costs costume costumed costumes cosy cot coterie coterminous cots cottage cottages cotton cottoned cottons couch couched couches couching cougar cougars cough coughed coughing coughs could couloir coulomb coulombs council councillor councillors councils counsel counselled counselling counsellor counsellors counsels count countability countable countably countdown counted countenance countenanced countenances countenancing counter counteract counteracted counteracting counteracts counterattack counterattacked counterattacks counterbalance counterbalanced counterbalancing countered counterfeit counterfeited counterfeiters counterfeiting counterfeits counterfoil counterfoils countering counterintelligence counterintuitive countermanded countermeasures counteroffensive counterpane counterpart counterparts counterpoint counterpointed counterpoints counterpoise counterproductive counterrevolution counterrevolutionaries counterrevolutionary counters countersign countersigned countersigns countess countesses counties counting countless countries country countryman countrymen countryside countrywide counts county coup coupe coupes couple coupled coupler couplers couples couplet couplets coupling couplings coupon coupons coups courage courageous courageously courgette courgettes courier couriers course coursebook coursed courses coursework coursing court courted courteous courteously courtesan courtesans courtesies courtesy courthouse courtier courtiers courting courtly courtmartial courtroom courtrooms courts courtship courtships courtyard courtyards couscous cousin cousinly cousins couther couture couturier couturiers covalent covalently covariance covariances cove coven covenant covenanted covenanters covenants covens cover coverage coverages coveralls covered covering coverings coverlet coverlets covers coversheet covert covertly coverts coverup coverups coves covet coveted coveting covetous covetousness covets cow coward cowardice cowardly cowards cowboy cowboys cowed cower cowered cowering cowers cowgirl cowgirls cowhand cowherd cowing cowl cowled cowling coworker coworkers cowriter cowritten cows cowshed cowsheds cowslip cowslips cox coxcomb coxcombs coxed coxes coxing coxswain coy coyly coyness coyote coyotes cozier crab crabby crabs crack crackable crackdown crackdowns cracked cracker crackers cracking crackle crackled crackles crackling crackly crackpot crackpots cracks cradle cradled cradles cradling craft crafted crafter craftier craftiest craftily crafting crafts craftsman craftsmanship craftsmen craftspeople crafty crag craggy crags cram crammed crammer cramming cramp cramped cramping crampon crampons cramps crams cran cranberries cranberry crane craned cranes cranial craning cranium crank cranked cranking cranks crankshaft cranky crannies cranny crap crash crashed crasher crashers crashes crashing crashingly crashland crashlanded crashlanding crass crasser crassly crassness crate crateful crater cratered craters crates cravat cravats crave craved craven cravenly craves craving cravings crawl crawled crawler crawlers crawling crawls craws crayfish crayon crayoned crayons craze crazed crazes crazier craziest crazily craziness crazy creak creaked creakier creakiest creaking creaks creaky cream creamed creamer creamery creamier creamiest creaming creams creamy crease creased creases creasing creatable create created creates creating creation creationism creationist creationists creations creative creatively creativeness creativity creator creators creature creatures creche creches credence credentials credibility credible credibly credit creditability creditable creditably credited crediting creditor creditors credits creditworthiness creditworthy credo credulity credulous creed creeds creek creeks creel creep creeper creepers creeping creeps creepy cremate cremated cremates cremation cremations crematoria crematorium creme crenellated crenellation crenellations creole creoles creosote crepe crept crepuscular crescendo crescent crescents cress crest crested crestfallen cresting crests cretaceous cretan cretans crete cretin cretinous cretins crevasse crevasses crevice crevices crew crewed crewing crewman crewmen crews crib cribbage cribbed cribbing cribs crick cricket cricketer cricketers cricketing crickets cried crier cries crim crime crimea crimes criminal criminalisation criminalise criminalised criminalising criminality criminally criminals criminological criminologist criminologists criminology crimp crimped crimping crimson cringe cringed cringes cringing crinkle crinkled crinkling crinkly crinoline cripple crippled cripples crippling cripplingly crises crisis crisp crisped crisper crispier crispiest crisply crispness crisps crispy crisscrossed crisscrosses criteria criterion critic critical critically criticise criticised criticises criticising criticism criticisms critics critique critiques critter croak croaked croakier croakiest croaking croaks croatia croatian crochet crocheted crochets crock crockery crocks crocodile crocodiles crocus crocuses croft crofter crofters crofting crofts croissant croissants crone crones cronies crony crook crooked crookedly crookedness crooking crooks croon crooned crooner crooners crooning croons crop cropped cropper croppers cropping crops croquet croqueted croqueting croquette crores crosier crosiers cross cross-bun crossbar crossbars crossbones crossbow crossbows crossbred crosscheck crosschecked crosschecking crosschecks crosscountry crossed crosser crosses crossexamination crossexamine crossexamined crossexamines crossexamining crossfertilisation crossfire crossing crossings crossly crossness crossover crossovers crossreference crossreferenced crossreferences crossreferencing crossroads crosssection crosssectional crosssections crosstalk crossways crosswind crosswinds crossword crosswords crotch crotchet crotchetiness crotchety crotchless crouch crouched crouches crouching croup croupier croutons crow crowbar crowbars crowd crowded crowding crowds crowed crowing crown crowned crowning crowns crows crozier croziers crucial crucially cruciate crucible crucibles crucifiable crucified crucifix crucifixes crucifixion crucifixions cruciform crucify crucifying crude crudely crudeness cruder crudest crudities crudity cruel crueler cruelest crueller cruellest cruelly cruelness cruelties cruelty cruise cruised cruiser cruisers cruises cruising cruller crumb crumbing crumble crumbled crumbles crumblier crumbliest crumbling crumbly crumbs crumby crummy crumpet crumpets crumple crumpled crumples crumpling crunch crunched cruncher crunchers crunches crunchier crunchiest crunching crunchy crusade crusaded crusader crusaders crusades crusading crush crushed crusher crushers crushes crushing crushingly crust crustacean crustaceans crustal crusted crustier crustiest crusts crusty crutch crutches crux cruxes cry crying cryings cryogenic cryogenics cryostat crypt cryptanalysis cryptanalyst cryptanalytic cryptic cryptically cryptogram cryptographer cryptographers cryptographic cryptographically cryptography cryptology crypts crystal crystalclear crystalline crystallisation crystallise crystallised crystallises crystallising crystallographer crystallographers crystallographic crystallography crystals cub cuba cuban cubans cube cubed cubes cubic cubical cubically cubicle cubicles cubing cubism cubist cubistic cubists cubit cubits cuboid cubs cuckold cuckolded cuckoo cuckoos cucumber cucumbers cud cuddle cuddled cuddles cuddlier cuddliest cuddliness cuddling cuddly cudgel cudgels cuds cue cued cueing cues cuff cuffed cuffing cuffs cuing cuirass cuisine culdesac culinary cull culled culling culls culminate culminated culminates culminating culmination culpability culpable culpably culprit culprits cult cultivable cultivar cultivate cultivated cultivates cultivating cultivation cultivations cultivator cultivators cults cultural culturally culture cultured cultures culturing cultus culvert cumbersome cumbersomely cumlaude cummerbund cumulative cumulatively cumulus cuneiform cunnilingus cunning cunningly cup cupboard cupboards cupful cupid cupidinously cupidity cupola cupolas cupped cupping cuprous cups cur curable curare curate curated curates curative curator curatorial curators curatorships curb curbed curbing curbs curd curdle curdled curdles curdling curds cure cured curer cures curfew curfews curia curial curie curies curing curio curiosities curiosity curious curiously curl curled curlers curlew curlews curlicues curlier curliest curliness curling curls curly curmudgeons currant currants currencies currency current currently currents curricle curricula curricular curriculum curried curries curry currying curs curse cursed curses cursing cursive cursor cursorily cursors cursory curt curtail curtailed curtailing curtailment curtailments curtails curtain curtained curtaining curtains curtilage curtly curtness curtsey curtseyed curtseying curtseys curtsied curtsies curtsy curtsying curvaceous curvature curvatures curve curved curves curvilinear curving curvy cushion cushioned cushioning cushions cusp cusps cuss cussedness custard custards custodial custodian custodians custodianship custody custom customarily customary customer customers customisable customisation customisations customise customised customising customs cut cutback cutbacks cute cutely cuteness cutest cuticle cuticles cutlass cutlasses cutler cutlery cutlet cutlets cutout cutouts cutprice cutrate cuts cutter cutters cutthroat cutting cuttingly cuttings cuttle cuttlefish cyan cyanide cyanogen cybernetic cybernetics cyberpunk cyberspace cyborg cycad cycads cycle cycled cycles cycleway cycleways cyclic cyclical cyclically cycling cyclist cyclists cycloid cyclone cyclones cyclops cyclotron cyclotrons cygnet cygnets cylinder cylinders cylindrical cylindrically cymbal cymbals cynic cynical cynically cynicism cynics cypher cyphers cypress cypresses cyprian cyprians cypriot cypriots cyprus cyst cysteine cystic cystine cystitis cysts cytochrome cytogenetic cytological cytology cytoplasm cytoplasmic cytosine cytotoxic czar czars czech czechs dab dabbed dabbing dabble dabbled dabbler dabbles dabbling dabs dace dacha dachau dachshund dactyl dactylic dactyls dad daddies daddy daddylonglegs dado dads daemon daemonic daemons daffodil daffodils daffy daft dafter daftest daftness dagama dagga dagger daggers dahlia dahlias dahomey dailies daily daintier daintiest daintily daintiness dainty dairies dairy dairying dairyman dairymen dais daisies daisy dakar dakoits dale dales dallas dalliance dallied dally dallying dam damage damaged damages damaging damagingly damascus damask dame dames dammed damming damn damnable damnably damnation damned damnify damning damningly damns damp damped dampen dampened dampening dampens damper dampers dampest damping dampish damply dampness damps dams damsel damsels damson damsons dan dance danceable danced dancer dancers dances dancing dandelion dandelions dandies dandruff dandy dane danes danger dangerous dangerously dangerousness dangers dangle dangled dangles dangling daniel danish dank dankest dante danube danzig dapper dapple dappled dapples dare dared daredevil dares daring daringly dark darken darkened darkening darkens darker darkest darkish darkly darkness darkroom darkrooms darling darlings darn darned darning darns dart dartboard dartboards darted darter darters darting darts darwin dash dashboard dashed dashes dashing dassie dassies dastardly data database databases datable date dated dateline dates dating dative datum daub daubed dauber daubing daughter daughterinlaw daughters daughtersinlaw daunt daunted daunting dauntingly dauntless daunts dauphin dauphins david davinci dawdle dawdled dawdling dawn dawned dawning dawns day daybreak daycare daydream daydreaming daydreams daylight daylights daylong dayold days daytime daze dazed dazedly dazing dazzle dazzled dazzler dazzles dazzling dazzlingly dday deacon deaconess deaconesses deacons deactivate deactivated deactivates deactivating deactivation dead deadbeat deaden deadend deadened deadening deadens deader deadlier deadliest deadline deadlines deadlock deadlocked deadlocking deadlocks deadly deadness deadon deadpan deadsea deaf deafanddumb deafen deafened deafening deafeningly deafens deafer deafest deafness deal dealer dealers dealership dealerships dealing dealings deals dealt dean deanery deans dear dearer dearest dearie dearies dearly dearness dears dearth deary death deathbed deathless deathly deaths deb debacle debacles debar debark debarred debars debase debased debasement debaser debasing debatable debate debated debater debaters debates debating debauch debauched debauchery debenture debentures debilitate debilitated debilitating debility debit debited debiting debits debonair debone deboned debones debrief debriefed debriefing debris debt debtor debtors debts debug debugged debugger debuggers debugging debugs debunk debunks debut debutant debutante debutantes debutants debuts decade decadence decadent decades decaf decaffeinate decaffeinated decagon decagons decamp decamped decant decanted decanter decanters decanting decants decapitate decapitated decapitates decapitating decapitation decapitations decapod decathlon decay decayed decaying decays decease deceased deceases deceit deceitful deceitfulness deceits deceive deceived deceiver deceives deceiving decelerate decelerated decelerates decelerating deceleration decelerations december decency decent decently decentralisation decentralise decentralised decentralising deception deceptions deceptive deceptively decibel decibels decidability decidable decide decided decidedly decider decides deciding deciduous decile deciles decilitre decimal decimalisation decimalise decimals decimate decimated decimating decimation decimetres decipher decipherable deciphered deciphering decipherment decipherments decision decisions decisive decisively decisiveness deck deckchair deckchairs decked decker decking decks declaim declaimed declaiming declaims declamation declamatory declaration declarations declarative declaratory declare declared declarer declarers declares declaring declassification declassified declension declensions declination declinations decline declined declines declining declivity deco decode decoded decoder decoders decodes decoding decoke decolonisation decommission decommissioned decommissioning decomposable decompose decomposed decomposes decomposing decomposition decompositions decompress decompressed decompressing decompression decongestants deconstruct deconstructed deconstructing deconstruction deconstructionist deconstructive decontaminated decontaminating decontamination deconvolution deconvolve decor decorate decorated decorates decorating decoration decorations decorative decoratively decorator decorators decorous decorously decors decorum decouple decoupled decoupling decoy decoyed decoying decoys decrease decreased decreases decreasing decreasingly decree decreed decreeing decrees decrement decremental decremented decrementing decrements decrepit decrepitude decried decries decriminalisation decriminalise decriminalised decriminalising decry decrying decrypt decrypted decrypting decryption decrypts decustomised dedicate dedicated dedicates dedicating dedication dedications deduce deduced deduces deducible deducing deduct deducted deductible deducting deduction deductions deductive deductively deducts dee deed deeds deejay deem deemed deeming deems deep deepen deepened deepening deepens deeper deepest deepfreeze deepfreezing deepfried deepfrozen deepish deeply deepness deeprooted deeps deepsea deepseated deer deerstalker deerstalkers deerstalking deface defaced defaces defacing defacto defamation defamatory defame defamed defamer defames defaming default defaulted defaulter defaulters defaulting defaults defeat defeated defeater defeating defeatism defeatist defeats defecate defecating defect defected defecting defection defections defective defectiveness defectives defector defectors defects defence defenceless defencelessness defences defend defendant defendants defended defender defenders defending defends defenestrate defenestrated defenestration defenses defensibility defensible defensive defensively defensiveness defer deference deferential deferentially deferment deferral deferred deferring defers defiance defiant defiantly defibrillator defibrillators deficiencies deficiency deficient deficit deficits defied defier defies defile defiled defilement defiles defiling definable definably define defined definer defines defining definite definitely definiteness definition definitional definitions definitive definitively definitiveness deflatable deflate deflated deflates deflating deflation deflationary deflect deflected deflecting deflection deflections deflector deflectors deflects deflower deflowering defoliants defoliation deforestation deforested deform deformable deformation deformations deformed deforming deformities deformity deforms defragmentation defraud defrauded defrauding defrauds defray defrayed defrost defrosted defrosting defrosts deft defter deftly deftness defunct defuse defused defuses defusing defy defying degas degauss degaussed degaussing degeneracies degeneracy degenerate degenerated degenerates degenerating degeneration degenerative degradable degradation degradations degrade degraded degrades degrading degrease degree degrees dehorn dehumanised dehumanises dehumanising dehumidifier dehydrate dehydrated dehydrating dehydration deification deified deifies deify deifying deism deist deists deities deity deject dejected dejectedly dejection dejects deklerk delate delay delayed delaying delays delectable delectation delegate delegated delegates delegating delegation delegations deletable delete deleted deleter deleterious deleteriously deletes deleting deletion deletions delhi deli deliberate deliberated deliberately deliberating deliberation deliberations deliberative delible delicacies delicacy delicate delicately delicatessen delicatessens delicious deliciously delict delight delighted delightedly delightful delightfully delighting delights delilah delimit delimited delimiter delimiters delimiting delimits delineate delineated delineates delineating delineation delinquency delinquent delinquents deliquesced deliquescent delirious deliriously delirium deliver deliverable deliverance delivered deliverer deliverers deliveries delivering delivers delivery dell dells delphi delphiniums delta deltas deltoid deltoids delude deluded deludes deluding deluge deluged deluges deluging delusion delusional delusions delusive deluxe delve delved delves delving demagnetisation demagnetise demagog demagogic demagogue demagoguery demagogues demagogy demand demanded demander demanding demands demarcate demarcated demarcating demarcation demarcations dematerialise dematerialised dematerialises demean demeaned demeaning demeanour demeans dement demented dementedly dementia demerge demerit demigod demigods demijohns demilitarisation demilitarised demise demised demises demist demists demo demobilisation demobilised demobs democracies democracy democrat democratic democratically democratisation democratising democrats demodulator demographer demographers demographic demographically demographics demography demolish demolished demolisher demolishes demolishing demolition demolitions demon demonic demonise demonology demons demonstrable demonstrably demonstrate demonstrated demonstrates demonstrating demonstration demonstrations demonstrative demonstratively demonstratives demonstrator demonstrators demoralisation demoralise demoralised demoralising demote demoted demotes demotic demotion demount demountable demounted demounting demur demure demurely demurred demurring demurs demystification demystify demystifying den denationalisation denatured denaturing dendrites dendritic dendrochronological dendrochronology deniable denial denials denied denier deniers denies denigrate denigrated denigrates denigrating denigration denigrations denim denims denizen denizens denmark denominated denomination denominational denominations denominator denominators denotation denotational denotations denote denoted denotes denoting denouement denounce denounced denouncements denounces denouncing dens dense densely denseness denser densest densities densitometry density dent dental dented dentin dentine denting dentist dentistry dentists dentition dents denture dentures denudation denude denuded denudes denunciation denunciations denver deny denying deodorant deodorants deodorised depart departed departer departing department departmental departmentally departments departs departure departures depend dependability dependable dependant dependants depended dependence dependencies dependency dependent depending depends depersonalisation depersonalising depict depicted depicting depiction depictions depicts deplete depleted depleting depletion deplorable deplorably deplore deplored deplores deploring deploy deployed deploying deployment deployments deploys depolarisation depolarisations depoliticisation deponent depopulated depopulation deport deportation deportations deported deportee deportees deporting deportment deports depose deposed deposing deposit depositary deposited depositing deposition depositional depositions depositories depositors depository deposits depot depots deprave depraved depraves depraving depravity deprecate deprecated deprecates deprecating deprecatingly deprecation deprecations deprecatory depreciate depreciated depreciating depreciation depredation depredations depress depressant depressants depressed depresses depressing depressingly depression depressions depressive depressives deprivation deprivations deprive deprived deprives depriving depth depths deputation deputations depute deputed deputes deputies deputise deputised deputises deputising deputy derail derailed derailing derailment derails derange deranged derangement derate derated derates derbies derby deregulate deregulated deregulating deregulation derelict dereliction derelictions deride derided deriders derides deriding derision derisive derisively derisory derivable derivation derivations derivative derivatively derivatives derive derived derives deriving dermal dermatitis dermatological dermatologist dermatologists dermatology dermic dermis derogate derogation derogations derogatory derrick dervishes desalination desalt desaturated descant descend descendant descendants descended descendent descender descenders descending descends descent descents describable describe described describer describers describes describing description descriptions descriptive descriptively descriptiveness descriptivism descriptor descriptors desecrate desecrated desecrates desecrating desecration desegregation deselected desensitising desert deserted deserter deserters desertification deserting desertion desertions deserts deserve deserved deservedly deserves deserving desiccated desiccation desiccator desiderata desideratum design designable designate designated designates designating designation designational designations designator designators designed designedly designer designers designing designs desirabilia desirability desirable desirableness desirably desire desired desires desiring desirous desist desisted desisting desk deskilling desks desktop desktops desolate desolated desolating desolation desorption despair despaired despairing despairingly despairs despatch despatched despatches despatching desperado desperate desperately desperation despicable despicably despisal despise despised despises despising despite despoil despoiled despoiling despond despondency despondent despondently despot despotic despotism despots dessert desserts dessicated dessication destabilisation destabilise destabilised destabilising destination destinations destine destined destinies destiny destitute destitution destroy destroyable destroyed destroyer destroyers destroying destroys destruct destruction destructive destructively destructiveness desuetude desultorily desultoriness desultory detach detachable detached detaches detaching detachment detachments detail detailed detailing details detain detained detainee detainees detainer detaining detains detect detectability detectable detectably detected detecting detection detections detective detectives detector detectors detects detent detente detention detentions deter detergent detergents deteriorate deteriorated deteriorates deteriorating deterioration determinable determinacy determinant determinants determinate determinately determination determinations determinative determine determined determinedly determiner determines determining determinism determinist deterministic deterministically deterred deterrence deterrent deterrents deterring deters detest detestable detestably detestation detested detester detesters detesting detests dethrone dethroned detonate detonated detonates detonating detonation detonations detonator detonators detour detoured detours detox detoxification detoxify detract detracted detracting detraction detractor detractors detracts detriment detrimental detrimentally detrital detritus detroit deuce deuced deuces deuterium deuteron devaluation devaluations devalue devalued devalues devaluing devastate devastated devastating devastatingly devastation develop developed developer developers developing development developmental developmentally developments develops deviance deviancy deviant deviants deviate deviated deviates deviating deviation deviations device devices devil devilish devilishly devilled devilment devilry devils devious deviously deviousness devisal devise devised deviser devises devising devoice devoid devoir devolution devolve devolved devolving devote devoted devotedly devotedness devotee devotees devotes devoting devotion devotional devotions devour devoured devourer devourers devouring devours devout devoutly devoutness dew dewdrop dewdrops dews dewy dexterity dexterous dexterously dextral dextrose dextrous dextrously dhow diabetes diabetic diabetics diabolic diabolical diabolically diabolism diachronic diaconal diacritical diacriticals diacritics diadem diadems diagnosable diagnose diagnosed diagnoses diagnosing diagnosis diagnostic diagnostically diagnostician diagnostics diagonal diagonalise diagonalised diagonalises diagonalising diagonally diagonals diagram diagrammatic diagrammatically diagrams dial dialect dialectal dialectic dialectical dialectically dialectics dialects dialing dialled dialler dialling dialog dialogue dialogues dials dialysis diamante diameter diameters diametric diametrically diamond diamonds diana diapason diaper diapers diaphanous diaphragm diaphragmatic diaphragms diaries diarist diarrhea diarrhoea diarrhoeal diary diaspora diastolic diathermy diatom diatomic diatoms diatonic diatribe diatribes dice diced dices dicey dichloride dichotomies dichotomous dichotomy diciest dicing dickens dictate dictated dictates dictating dictation dictator dictatorial dictatorially dictators dictatorship dictatorships diction dictionaries dictionary dictions dictum did didactic didnt die died diehard diehards dielectric dielectrics dies diesel dieselelectric diesels diet dietary dieted dieter dietetic dietician dieticians dieting dietitian dietitians diets differ differed difference differences differencing different differentiability differentiable differential differentially differentials differentiate differentiated differentiates differentiating differentiation differentiations differentiators differently differing differs difficult difficulties difficulty diffidence diffident diffidently diffract diffracted diffracting diffraction diffracts diffuse diffused diffuser diffusers diffuses diffusing diffusion diffusional diffusive diffusivity dig digest digested digester digestible digesting digestion digestions digestive digestives digests digger diggers digging diggings digit digital digitalis digitally digitisation digitise digitised digitiser digitisers digitising digits dignified dignify dignifying dignitaries dignitary dignities dignity digraphs digress digressed digressing digression digressions digs dihedral dikes diktat diktats dilapidated dilapidation dilatation dilate dilated dilates dilating dilation dilator dilatory dildo dilemma dilemmas dilettante dilettantes diligence diligent diligently dill dilly diluent dilute diluted diluter dilutes diluting dilution dilutions dim dime dimension dimensional dimensionality dimensionally dimensioned dimensioning dimensionless dimensions dimer dimers dimes diminish diminishable diminished diminishes diminishing diminuendo diminution diminutive diminutives dimly dimmed dimmer dimmers dimmest dimming dimness dimorphic dimorphism dimple dimpled dimples dims dimwit din dinar dinars dine dined diner diners dines ding dingdong dinged dinghies dinghy dingier dingiest dinginess dingle dingo dingy dining dinky dinner dinners dinosaur dinosaurs dint dints diocesan diocese diode diodes dioptre dioptres dioxide dioxides dioxin dioxins dip diphtheria diphthong diphthongs diplexers diploid diploma diplomacy diplomas diplomat diplomatic diplomatically diplomats dipolar dipole dipoles dipped dipper dipping dips dipsomania dipsomaniac dipsomaniacs dipstick dipsticks dire direct directed directing direction directional directionality directionally directionless directions directive directives directly directness director directorate directorates directorial directories directors directorship directorships directory directs direly direness direst dirge dirges dirigible dirigiste dirt dirtied dirtier dirties dirtiest dirtily dirtiness dirts dirty dirtying disabilities disability disable disabled disablement disables disabling disabuse disabused disadvantage disadvantaged disadvantageous disadvantageously disadvantages disaffected disaffection disaffiliate disaffiliated disaffiliating disaffiliation disaggregate disaggregated disaggregation disagree disagreeable disagreeably disagreed disagreeing disagreement disagreements disagrees disallow disallowed disallowing disallows disambiguate disambiguated disambiguating disambiguation disappear disappearance disappearances disappeared disappearing disappears disappoint disappointed disappointing disappointingly disappointment disappointments disappoints disapprobation disapproval disapprove disapproved disapproves disapproving disapprovingly disarm disarmament disarmed disarmer disarming disarmingly disarms disarranging disarray disarrayed disassemble disassembled disassembler disassembles disassembling disassembly disassociate disassociated disassociating disassociation disaster disasters disastrous disastrously disavow disavowal disavowed disavowing disband disbanded disbanding disbandment disbands disbars disbelief disbelieve disbelieved disbeliever disbelievers disbelieving disbelievingly disburse disbursed disbursement disbursements disc discant discard discarded discarding discards discern discerned discernible discernibly discerning discernment discerns discharge discharged discharges discharging disciple disciples discipleship disciplinarian disciplinarians disciplinary discipline disciplined disciplines disciplining disclaim disclaimed disclaimer disclaimers disclaiming disclaims disclose disclosed discloses disclosing disclosure disclosures disco discography discolour discolouration discoloured discolours discomfit discomfited discomfiture discomfort discomforting discomforts disconcert disconcerted disconcerting disconcertingly disconnect disconnected disconnecting disconnection disconnections disconnects disconsolate disconsolately disconsolation discontent discontented discontentedly discontents discontinuance discontinuation discontinue discontinued discontinues discontinuing discontinuities discontinuity discontinuous discontinuously discord discordance discordant discords discotheque discotheques discount discountability discountable discounted discounting discounts discourage discouraged discouragement discouragements discourages discouraging discouragingly discourse discoursed discourses discoursing discourteous discourteously discourtesy discover discoverable discovered discoverer discoverers discoveries discovering discovers discovery discredit discreditable discredited discrediting discredits discreet discreetly discreetness discrepancies discrepancy discrepant discrete discretely discretion discretionary discriminant discriminants discriminate discriminated discriminates discriminating discrimination discriminative discriminator discriminators discriminatory discs discursive discursively discus discuss discussable discussed discusses discussing discussion discussions disdain disdained disdainful disdainfully disdaining disease diseased diseases disembark disembarkation disembarked disembarking disembodied disembodiment disembowel disembowelled disembowelment disembowels disenchanted disenchantment disenfranchise disenfranchised disenfranchisement disenfranchises disenfranchising disengage disengaged disengagement disengaging disentangle disentangled disentangles disentangling disequilibrium disestablish disestablished disestablishing disestablishment disfavour disfigure disfigured disfigurement disfigurements disfigures disfiguring disfranchise disgorge disgorged disgorging disgrace disgraced disgraceful disgracefully disgraces disgracing disgruntled disgruntlement disguise disguised disguises disguising disgust disgusted disgustedly disgusting disgustingly disgusts dish disharmonious disharmony dishcloth disheartened disheartening dished dishes dishevelled dishier dishing dishonest dishonestly dishonesty dishonour dishonourable dishonourably dishonoured dishpan dishwasher dishwashers dishwater dishy disillusion disillusioned disillusioning disillusionment disincentive disincentives disinclination disinclined disinfect disinfectant disinfectants disinfected disinfecting disinfection disinformation disingenuous disingenuously disinherit disinherited disintegrate disintegrated disintegrates disintegrating disintegration disinter disinterest disinterested disinterestedly disinterestedness disinterred disinvest disinvestment disjoin disjoint disjointed disjointedly disjointness disjunct disjunction disjunctions disjunctive diskette diskettes dislike disliked dislikes disliking dislocate dislocated dislocates dislocating dislocation dislocations dislodge dislodged dislodges dislodging disloyal disloyalty dismal dismally dismantle dismantled dismantles dismantling dismay dismayed dismaying dismays dismember dismembered dismembering dismemberment dismembers dismiss dismissal dismissals dismissed dismisses dismissible dismissing dismissive dismissively dismount dismounted dismounting dismounts disobedience disobedient disobey disobeyed disobeying disobeys disorder disordered disorderly disorders disorganisation disorganise disorganised disorganising disorient disorientated disorientating disorientation disoriented disown disowned disowning disowns disparage disparaged disparagement disparaging disparagingly disparate disparities disparity dispassionate dispassionately dispatch dispatched dispatcher dispatchers dispatches dispatching dispel dispelled dispelling dispels dispensable dispensaries dispensary dispensation dispensations dispense dispensed dispenser dispensers dispenses dispensing dispersal dispersant disperse dispersed disperser dispersers disperses dispersing dispersion dispersions dispersive dispersively dispirited dispiritedly dispiriting displace displaced displacement displacements displacer displaces displacing display displayable displayed displaying displays displease displeased displeasing displeasure disporting disposable disposables disposal disposals dispose disposed disposer disposers disposes disposing disposition dispositions dispossess dispossessed dispossession disproof disproofs disproportional disproportionally disproportionate disproportionately disprovable disprove disproved disproves disproving disputable disputant disputants disputation disputatious dispute disputed disputes disputing disqualification disqualifications disqualified disqualifies disqualify disqualifying disquiet disquieting disquietude disquisition disquisitions disregard disregarded disregarding disregards disrepair disreputable disrepute disrespect disrespectful disrespectfully disrespects disrobe disrobing disrupt disrupted disrupting disruption disruptions disruptive disruptively disruptor disrupts dissatisfaction dissatisfactions dissatisfied dissatisfies dissatisfy dissatisfying dissect dissected dissecting dissection dissections dissector dissects dissemble dissembled dissembling disseminate disseminated disseminating dissemination dissension dissensions dissent dissented dissenter dissenters dissenting dissertation dissertations disservice dissidence dissident dissidents dissimilar dissimilarities dissimilarity dissimulation dissipate dissipated dissipates dissipating dissipation dissipative dissociate dissociated dissociating dissociation dissociative dissociatively dissolute dissolution dissolve dissolved dissolves dissolving dissonance dissonances dissonant dissuade dissuaded dissuades dissuading distaff distal distally distance distanced distances distancing distant distantly distaste distasteful distastefully distemper distempered distempers distended distension distil distillate distillation distillations distilled distiller distilleries distillers distillery distilling distils distinct distinction distinctions distinctive distinctively distinctiveness distinctly distinctness distinguish distinguishable distinguishably distinguished distinguishes distinguishing distort distorted distorter distorting distortion distortions distorts distract distracted distractedly distractedness distracting distractingly distraction distractions distracts distraught distress distressed distresses distressing distressingly distributable distribute distributed distributes distributing distribution distributional distributions distributive distributivity distributor distributors district districts distrust distrusted distrustful distrustfully distrusting distrusts disturb disturbance disturbances disturbed disturbing disturbingly disturbs disulphide disunion disunite disunity disuse disused disyllabic disyllable ditch ditched ditches ditching dither dithered dithering dithers ditties ditto ditty diuresis diuretic diuretics diurnal diva divan divans divas dive divebombing dived diver diverge diverged divergence divergences divergent diverges diverging divers diverse diversely diversification diversified diversifies diversify diversifying diversion diversionary diversions diversities diversity divert diverted diverticular diverting diverts dives divest divested divesting divide divided dividend dividends divider dividers divides dividing divination divine divined divinely diviner divines divinest diving divining divinities divinity divisibility divisible division divisional divisions divisive divisiveness divisor divisors divorce divorced divorcee divorcees divorces divorcing divot divots divulge divulged divulges divulging dizzier dizziest dizzily dizziness dizzy dizzying dizzyingly do doberman doc docile docilely docility dock dockage docked docker dockers docket dockets docking dockland docklands docks dockside dockyard dockyards docs doctor doctoral doctorate doctorates doctored doctoring doctors doctrinaire doctrinal doctrinally doctrine doctrines document documentaries documentary documentation documented documenting documents dodecahedra dodecahedral dodecahedron dodge dodged dodgem dodgems dodger dodgers dodges dodgier dodging dodgy dodo doe doer doers does doesnt doffed doffing dog dogdays doge dogeared doges dogfight dogfights dogfish dogged doggedly doggedness doggerel dogging doggy doglike dogma dogmas dogmatic dogmatically dogmatism dogmatist dogmatists dogood dogooder dogooders dogs dogsbody dogtag dogy doh dohs doily doing doings doityourself doldrums dole doled doleful dolefully dolerite doles doling doll dollar dollars dolled dollies dollop dolls dolly dolman dolmen dolomite dolorous dolphin dolphinarium dolphins dolt domain domains dome domed domes domestic domestically domesticated domestication domesticity domestics domicile domiciled domiciliary dominance dominant dominantly dominate dominated dominates dominating domination domineer domineered domineering dominion dominions domino don donate donated donates donating donation donations done dong donga donjuan donkey donkeys donned donning donor donors dons dont donut doodle doodled doodles doodling doom doomed dooming dooms doomsday door doorbell doorbells doorhandles doorkeeper doorkeepers doorknob doorknobs doorman doormat doormats doormen doornail doorpost doors doorstep doorsteps doorstop doorstops doorway doorways dopamine dope doped dopes dopey dopier doping dopy dor dorado dormancy dormant dormer dormers dormice dormitories dormitory dormouse dorsal dorsally dosage dosages dose dosed doses dosing dossier dossiers dot dotage dote doted dotes doting dots dotted dottiness dotting dotty double doublebarrelled doublecross doublecrossing doubled doubledealing doubledecker doubledeckers doubles doublet doubletalk doublets doubling doubly doubt doubted doubter doubters doubtful doubtfully doubting doubtingly doubtless doubtlessly doubts douche douching dough doughnut doughnuts doughs doughty dour dourly dourness douse doused dousing dove dovecot dovecote dover doves dovetail dovetails dowager dowagers dowdier dowdiest dowdy dowel dowelling dowels down downbeat downcast downed downfall downgrade downgraded downgrades downgrading downhearted downhill downing downland downlands download downloaded downloading downloads downpipe downpipes downplay downplayed downpour downpours downright downs downside downsize downsized downsizing downstage downstairs downstream downswing downtoearth downtrodden downturn downturns downward downwardly downwards downwind downy dowries dowry dowse dowser dowsers dowsing doyen doyenne doyens doze dozed dozen dozens dozes dozier dozing dozy dr drab drabness drachm drachma drachmas dracone draconian dracula draft drafted draftee draftees drafter drafters draftier drafting drafts draftsman drafty drag dragged dragging dragnet dragon dragonflies dragonfly dragons dragoon dragooned dragoons drags drain drainage drained drainer draining drainpipe drainpipes drains drake drakes dram drama dramas dramatic dramatically dramatics dramatisation dramatisations dramatise dramatised dramatising dramatist dramatists dramaturgical drank drape draped draper draperies drapers drapery drapes draping drastic drastically drat draught draughtier draughtiest draughts draughtsman draughtsmanship draughtsmen draughty draw drawable drawback drawbacks drawbridge drawbridges drawcord drawees drawer drawers drawing drawings drawl drawled drawling drawls drawn draws dray drays dread dreaded dreadful dreadfully dreadfulness dreading dreadlocks dreadnought dreads dream dreamed dreamer dreamers dreamier dreamiest dreamily dreaming dreamland dreamless dreamlike dreams dreamt dreamy drear drearier dreariest drearily dreariness dreary dredge dredged dredger dredges dredging dregs drench drenched drenches drenching dress dressage dressed dresser dressers dresses dressing dressings dressmaker dressmakers dressmaking dressy drew dribble dribbled dribbler dribbles dribbling dried drier driers dries driest drift drifted drifter drifters drifting drifts driftwood drill drilled driller drilling drills drily drink drinkable drinker drinkers drinking drinks drip dripdry dripped dripping drippy drips drivable drive drivein driveins drivel drivelled drivelling drivels driven driver driverless drivers drives driveway driveways driving drizzle drizzled drizzles drizzling drizzly droll droller drollery drollest dromedaries dromedary drone droned drones droning drool drooled drooling drools droop drooped droopier droopiest drooping droopingly droops droopy drop droplet droplets dropout dropouts dropped dropper dropping droppings drops dropsy dross drought droughts drove drover drovers droves droving drown drowned drowning drownings drowns drowse drowsed drowses drowsier drowsiest drowsily drowsiness drowsy drub drubbed drubbing drudge drudgery drudges drug drugged drugging druggist drugs druid druids drum drumbeat drumbeats drummed drummer drummers drumming drums drumsticks drunk drunkard drunkards drunken drunkenly drunkenness drunker drunks dry drycleaned drycleaning dryer dryers dryeyed drying dryish dryly dryness drystone dual dualism dualisms dualist dualistic dualities duality dually duals dub dubbed dubbing dubious dubiously dubiousness dublin dubs duce duchess duchesses duchies duchy duck duckbill duckbilled duckboards ducked ducking duckings duckling ducklings duckpond ducks duct ducted ductile ducting ducts dud dude dudes dudgeon duds due duel duelled dueller duellers duelling duellist duels dues duet duets duff duffel dug dugout dugouts duiker duke dukedom dukedoms dukes dulcet dulcimer dull dullard dullards dulled duller dullest dulling dullness dulls dully dulness duly dumb dumbbell dumber dumbest dumbfound dumbfounded dumbfounding dumbfounds dumbly dumbness dumbstruck dumfound dumfounded dumfounding dumfounds dummied dummies dummy dump dumped dumper dumping dumpling dumplings dumps dumpy dun dunce dunces dune dunes dung dungarees dungbeetle dungeon dungeons dunghill dunked dunking dunkirk duo duodenal duodenum duologue duomo duopoly dupe duped dupes duplex duplicability duplicate duplicated duplicates duplicating duplication duplications duplicator duplicators duplicities duplicitous duplicity durability durable durables durance duration durations durban duress during dusk duskier dusky dust dustbin dustbins dustcart dusted duster dusters dustier dustily dusting dustman dustmen dustpan dusts dusty dutch dutchman dutchmen duties dutiful dutifully dutifulness duty dutyfree duvet duvets dux dwarf dwarfed dwarfing dwarfish dwarfs dwarves dwell dwelled dweller dwellers dwelling dwellings dwells dwelt dwindle dwindled dwindles dwindling dyad dyadic dye dyed dyeing dyeings dyer dyers dyes dyestuff dyestuffs dying dyke dykes dynamic dynamical dynamically dynamics dynamism dynamite dynamited dynamo dynast dynastic dynasties dynasts dynasty dyne dysentery dysfunction dysfunctional dysfunctions dyslexia dyslexic dyslexically dyslexics dyspepsia dyspeptic dystrophy each eager eagerly eagerness eagle eagles eaglet eaglets ear earache earaches eardrop eardrops eardrum eardrums eared earful earholes earl earldom earldoms earlier earliest earlobe earlobes earls early earmark earmarked earmarking earn earned earner earners earnest earnestly earnestness earning earnings earns earphone earphones earpiece earpieces earplug earplugs earring earrings ears earshot earsplitting earth earthbound earthed earthen earthenware earthiness earthing earthling earthlings earthly earthquake earthquakes earths earthshaking earthshattering earthwards earthwork earthworks earthworm earthworms earthy earwax earwig earwigs ease eased easel easels easement easements eases easier easiest easily easiness easing east eastbound easter easterly eastern easterners easternmost easting eastward eastwards easy easygoing eat eatable eatage eaten eater eaters eatery eating eatings eats eaves eavesdrop eavesdropped eavesdropper eavesdroppers eavesdropping eavesdrops ebb ebbed ebbing ebbs ebbtide ebony ebullience ebullient eccentric eccentrically eccentricities eccentricity eccentrics ecclesiastic ecclesiastical ecclesiastically echelon echelons echidna echidnas echinoderm echinoderms echo echoed echoic echoing eclair eclairs eclectic eclecticism eclipse eclipsed eclipses eclipsing ecliptic ecological ecologically ecologist ecologists ecology econometric econometrics economic economical economically economics economies economisation economise economised economises economising economist economists economy ecosystem ecosystems ecstasies ecstasy ecstatic ecstatically ectopic ectoplasm ecuador ecumenical ecumenically ecumenism eczema eddied eddies eddy eddying edema eden edge edged edgeless edges edgeways edgewise edgier edgily edginess edging edgings edgy edibility edible edibles edict edicts edification edifice edifices edified edifies edify edifying edison edit editable edited editing edition editions editor editorial editorialised editorially editorials editors editorship editorships edits educate educated educates educating education educational educationalist educationalists educationally educationist educationists educations educative educator educators eduction eel eels eelworm eelworms eerie eerier eeriest eerily eeriness eery efface effaced effacing effect effected effecting effective effectively effectiveness effector effectors effects effectual effectually effeminacy effeminate efferent effervescence effervescent effete efficacious efficacy efficiencies efficiency efficient efficiently effigies effigy effluent effluents effluvia effluxion effort effortless effortlessly efforts effrontery effulgence effulgent effusion effusions effusive effusively eg egalitarian egalitarianism egalitarians egg egged eggheads egging eggs eggshell eggshells ego egocentric egocentricity egoism egoist egoistic egoists egomania egomaniac egomaniacs egotism egotist egotistic egotistical egotistically egotists egregious egress egret egrets egypt egyptian eh eider eiderdown eidetic eigenfunction eigenfunctions eigenstate eigenstates eigenvalue eigenvalues eight eighteen eighteenth eightfold eighth eighties eightieth eightpence eights eighty einstein eire eisteddfod either eject ejected ejecting ejection ejections ejector ejectors ejects eke eked eking elaborate elaborated elaborately elaborateness elaborates elaborating elaboration elaborations elal elan eland elands elapse elapsed elapses elapsing elastic elastically elasticated elasticities elasticity elastics elastin elastodynamics elate elated elates elation elbe elbow elbowed elbowing elbows elder elderberries elderberry elderflower elderly elders eldest eldorado elect electability electable elected electing election electioneering elections elective elector electoral electorally electorate electorates electors electric electrical electrically electrician electricians electricity electrics electrification electrified electrify electrifying electro electrocardiogram electrocardiographic electrochemical electrochemically electrocute electrocuted electrocutes electrocuting electrocution electrode electrodes electrodynamic electrodynamics electroencephalogram electroluminescent electrolyse electrolysed electrolysing electrolysis electrolyte electrolytes electrolytic electrolytically electromagnet electromagnetic electromagnetically electromagnetism electromechanical electromechanics electromotive electron electronegative electronic electronically electronics electrons electrophoresis electrostatic electrostatics electrotechnical elects elegance elegant elegantly elegiac elegies elegy element elemental elementally elementarily elementary elements elephant elephantiasis elephantine elephants elevate elevated elevates elevating elevation elevations elevator elevators eleven eleventh elf elfin elflike elgreco elicit elicitation elicited eliciting elicits elide elided elides eliding eligibility eligible eligibly elijah eliminate eliminated eliminates eliminating elimination eliminations eliminator elision elisions elite elites elitism elitist elitists elixir elixirs elk elks ell ellipse ellipses ellipsis ellipsoid ellipsoidal ellipsoids elliptic elliptical elliptically ells elm elms elnino elocution elongate elongated elongates elongating elongation elongations elope eloped elopement elopes eloping eloquence eloquent eloquently els else elsewhere elucidate elucidated elucidates elucidating elucidation elude eluded eludes eluding elusion elusions elusive elusively elusiveness eluted elution elven elves elvish elysee em emaciate emaciated emaciation email emailed emanate emanated emanates emanating emanation emanations emancipate emancipated emancipates emancipating emancipation emancipator emancipatory emasculate emasculated emasculating emasculation embalm embalmed embalmer embalmers embalming embalms embank embankment embankments embargo embargoed embark embarkation embarked embarking embarks embarrass embarrassed embarrassedly embarrasses embarrassing embarrassingly embarrassment embarrassments embassies embassy embattle embattled embed embeddable embedded embedding embeddings embeds embellish embellished embellishing embellishment embellishments ember embers embezzle embezzled embezzlement embezzler embezzlers embezzling embitter embittered embittering embitterment emblazoned emblem emblematic emblems embodied embodies embodiment embodiments embody embodying embolden emboldened emboldening emboldens embolism embosom emboss embossed embrace embraced embraces embracing embrasure embrocation embroider embroidered embroiderers embroideries embroidering embroidery embroil embroiled embroiling embryo embryological embryology embryonal embryonic emendation emendations emended emerald emeralds emerge emerged emergence emergencies emergency emergent emerges emerging emeritus emersion emery emetic emigrant emigrants emigrate emigrated emigrating emigration emigre emigres eminence eminences eminent eminently emir emirate emirates emirs emissaries emissary emission emissions emissivities emissivity emit emits emitted emitter emitters emitting emollient emolument emoluments emotion emotional emotionalism emotionality emotionally emotionless emotions emotive emotively empathetic empathetical empathic empathise empathising empathy emperor emperors emphases emphasis emphasise emphasised emphasises emphasising emphatic emphatically emphysema empire empires empiric empirical empirically empiricism empiricist empiricists emplacement emplacements employ employability employable employed employee employees employer employers employing employment employments employs emporia emporium empower empowered empowering empowerment empowers empress emptied emptier empties emptiest emptily emptiness empty emptyhanded emptying ems emu emulate emulated emulates emulating emulation emulations emulator emulators emulsifies emulsion emulsions emus enable enabled enables enabling enact enacted enacting enactment enactments enacts enamel enamelled enamels enamoured encage encamp encamped encampment encampments encapsulate encapsulated encapsulates encapsulating encapsulation encapsulations encase encased encases encashment encasing encephalitis encephalopathy enchain enchant enchanted enchanter enchanters enchanting enchantingly enchantment enchantments enchantress enchants enchiladas enciphering encircle encircled encirclement encirclements encircles encircling enclasp enclave enclaves enclose enclosed encloses enclosing enclosure enclosures encode encoded encoder encoders encodes encoding encomium encompass encompassed encompasses encompassing encore encored encores encounter encountered encountering encounters encourage encouraged encouragement encouragements encourager encourages encouraging encouragingly encroach encroached encroaches encroaching encroachment encroachments encrust encrustation encrusted encrusting encrypt encrypted encrypting encryption encrypts encumber encumbered encumbering encumbrance encumbrances encyclical encyclopaedia encyclopaedias encyclopaedic encyclopedia encyclopedias encyclopedic end endanger endangered endangering endangers endear endeared endearing endearingly endearment endearments endears endeavour endeavoured endeavouring endeavours ended endemic endemically endgame ending endings endive endless endlessly endlessness endocrine endogenous endogenously endometrial endometriosis endometrium endomorphism endomorphisms endoplasmic endorphins endorse endorsed endorsement endorsements endorser endorses endorsing endoscope endoscopic endoscopy endothermic endotoxin endow endowed endowing endowment endowments endows endpapers ends endued endues endungeoned endurable endurance endure endured endures enduring enema enemas enemies enemy energetic energetically energetics energies energise energised energiser energisers energising energy enervate enervated enervating enfeeble enfeebled enfeeblement enfold enfolded enfolding enfolds enforce enforceability enforceable enforced enforcement enforcements enforcer enforcers enforces enforcing enfranchise enfranchised enfranchisement enfranchiser enfranchising engage engaged engagement engagements engages engaging engagingly engarde engels engender engendered engendering engenders engine engined engineer engineered engineering engineers engines england english engorge engorged engrained engrave engraved engraver engravers engraves engraving engravings engross engrossed engrossing engulf engulfed engulfing engulfs enhance enhanceable enhanced enhancement enhancements enhancer enhancers enhances enhancing enharmonic enigma enigmas enigmatic enigmatically enjoin enjoined enjoining enjoins enjoy enjoyability enjoyable enjoyably enjoyed enjoyer enjoying enjoyment enjoyments enjoys enlace enlarge enlarged enlargement enlargements enlarger enlarges enlarging enlighten enlightened enlightening enlightenment enlightens enlist enlisted enlisting enlistment enlists enliven enlivened enlivening enlivens enmasse enmeshed enmities enmity enneads ennoble ennobled ennobles ennobling ennui enormities enormity enormous enormously enough enounced enounces enquire enquired enquirer enquirers enquires enquiries enquiring enquiringly enquiry enrage enraged enrages enraging enraptured enrich enriched enriches enriching enrichment enrichments enrobe enrobed enrol enroll enrolled enrolling enrolls enrolment enrolments enrols enroute ensconce ensconced ensemble ensembles enshrine enshrined enshrines enshrining enshroud enshrouded ensign ensigns enslave enslaved enslavement enslaves enslaving ensnare ensnared ensnaring ensnarl ensue ensued ensues ensuing ensure ensured ensures ensuring entablature entail entailed entailing entailment entails entangle entangled entanglement entanglements entangler entangles entangling entente enter entered entering enteritis enterprise enterprises enterprising enters entertain entertained entertainer entertainers entertaining entertainingly entertainment entertainments entertains enthalpies enthalpy enthralled enthralling enthrone enthroned enthronement enthuse enthused enthuses enthusiasm enthusiasms enthusiast enthusiastic enthusiastically enthusiasts enthusing entice enticed enticement enticements entices enticing enticingly entire entirely entires entirety entities entitle entitled entitlement entitlements entitles entitling entity entomb entombed entombment entombs entomological entomologist entomologists entomology entourage entrails entrain entrained entrainment entrance entranced entrances entrancing entrant entrants entrap entrapment entrapped entrapping entreat entreated entreaties entreating entreatingly entreats entreaty entree entrench entrenched entrenching entrenchment entrepreneur entrepreneurial entrepreneurs entrepreneurship entries entropic entropy entrust entrusted entrusting entrusts entry entwine entwined entwines entwining enumerable enumerate enumerated enumerates enumerating enumeration enumerations enumerator enumerators enunciate enunciated enunciating enunciation envelop envelope enveloped enveloper envelopers envelopes enveloping envelops enviable enviably envied envies envious enviously environ environment environmental environmentalism environmentalist environmentalists environmentally environments environs envisage envisaged envisages envisaging envision envisioned envoy envoys envy envying enwrap enzymatic enzyme enzymes eon eons eosin epaulettes ephemera ephemeral ephemeris ephor epic epically epicarp epicentre epics epicure epicurean epicycles epicycloid epidemic epidemics epidemiological epidemiologist epidemiologists epidemiology epidermal epidermis epidural epigenetic epigon epigones epigram epigrammatic epigrams epigraph epigraphical epigraphy epilepsy epileptic epileptics epilogue epinephrine epiphanies epiphenomena epiphenomenon episcopacy episcopal episcopalian episcopate episode episodes episodic episodically epistemic epistemological epistemology epistle epistles epistolary epitap epitaph epitaphs epitaxial epitaxy epithelial epithelium epithet epithetic epithets epitome epitomise epitomised epitomises epoch epochal epochs epoxies epoxy epsilon equable equably equal equalisation equalise equalised equaliser equalisers equalising equalities equality equalled equalling equally equals equanimity equate equated equates equating equation equations equator equatorial equerry equestrian equestrianism equiangular equidistant equilateral equilibrating equilibration equilibria equilibrium equine equinoctial equinox equinoxes equip equipartition equipment equipments equipped equipping equips equitable equitably equities equity equivalence equivalences equivalent equivalently equivalents equivocal equivocated equivocating equivocation equivocations era eradicate eradicated eradicating eradication eras erasable erase erased eraser erasers erases erasing erasure erasures erbium ere erect erected erecter erectile erecting erection erections erectly erects erg ergo ergodic ergonomic ergonomically ergonomics ergophobia ergot ergs erica ericas eritrea ermine erode eroded erodes eroding erogenous eros erose erosion erosional erosions erosive erotic erotica erotically eroticism err errand errands errant errata erratic erratically erratum erred erring erroneous erroneously error errors errs ersatz erst erstwhile erudite erudition erupt erupted erupting eruption eruptions eruptive erupts erysipelas esau escalade escalate escalated escalates escalating escalation escalator escalators escapade escapades escape escaped escapee escapees escapement escapes escaping escapism escapist escapology escarp escarpment escarpments escarps eschatological eschatology eschew eschewed eschewing eschews escort escorted escorting escorts escudo eskimo esoteric esoterica esoterically espadrilles especial especially espied espionage esplanade espousal espouse espoused espouses espousing espresso esprit espy espying esquire esquires essay essayed essayist essayists essays essen essence essences essential essentialism essentialist essentially essentials est establish established establishes establishing establishment establishments estate estates esteem esteemed esteems ester esters esthete esthetic estimable estimate estimated estimates estimating estimation estimations estimator estimators estonia estranged estrangement estrangements estuaries estuarine estuary eta etal etcetera etch etched etcher etchers etches etching etchings eternal eternally eternity ethane ethanol ether ethereal ethereally etherised ethic ethical ethically ethicist ethics ethiopia ethnic ethnical ethnically ethnicity ethnocentric ethnographer ethnographers ethnographic ethnography ethnological ethnology ethological ethologist ethologists ethology ethos ethyl ethylene etiquette etna etudes etui etymological etymologically etymologies etymologist etymologists etymology eucalyptus eugenic eugenics eukaryote eukaryotes eukaryotic eulogies eulogise eulogises eulogising eulogistic eulogy eunuch eunuchs euphemism euphemisms euphemistic euphemistically euphonious euphonium euphoniums euphony euphoria euphoric eurasia eurasian eureka eurekas euro europe european eurydice eutectic euthanasia evacuate evacuated evacuating evacuation evacuations evacuee evacuees evadable evade evaded evader evaders evades evading evaluable evaluate evaluated evaluates evaluating evaluation evaluational evaluations evaluative evaluator evaluators evanescent evangelical evangelicalism evangelicals evangelisation evangelise evangelising evangelism evangelist evangelistic evangelists evaporate evaporated evaporates evaporating evaporation evaporator evasion evasions evasive evasively evasiveness eve even evened evener evenhanded evening evenings evenly evenness evens evensong event eventful eventide eventing events eventual eventualities eventuality eventually ever everchanging everest evergreen evergreens everincreasing everlasting everlastingly everliving evermore everpresent eversion everting every everybody everyday everyone everything everywhere eves evict evicted evicting eviction evictions evicts evidence evidenced evidences evident evidential evidently evil evildoer evilly evilness evils evince evinced evinces evincing eviscerate evocation evocations evocative evocatively evoke evoked evokes evoking evolute evolution evolutionarily evolutionary evolutionism evolutionist evolutionists evolutions evolve evolved evolves evolving ewe ewes exacerbate exacerbated exacerbates exacerbating exacerbation exact exacted exacting exaction exactitude exactly exactness exacts exaggerate exaggerated exaggeratedly exaggerates exaggerating exaggeration exaggerations exalt exaltation exalted exalting exalts exam examinable examination examinations examine examined examinees examiner examiners examines examining example examples exams exasperate exasperated exasperatedly exasperating exasperation excavate excavated excavating excavation excavations excavator excavators exceed exceeded exceeding exceedingly exceeds excel excelled excellence excellencies excellency excellent excellently excelling excels excelsior except excepted excepting exception exceptionable exceptional exceptionally exceptions excepts excerpt excerpted excerpts excess excesses excessive excessively exchange exchangeable exchanged exchanger exchangers exchanges exchanging exchequer excise excised excising excision excitability excitable excitation excitations excite excited excitedly excitement excitements excites exciting excitingly exciton exclaim exclaimed exclaiming exclaims exclamation exclamations exclamatory exclude excluded excludes excluding exclusion exclusionary exclusions exclusive exclusively exclusiveness exclusivist exclusivity excommunicate excommunicated excommunicating excommunication excrete excruciating excruciatingly excruciation excursion excursionists excursions excursus excusable excuse excused excuses excusing executable execute executed executes executing execution executioner executioners executions executive executives executor executors exegesis exegetical exemplar exemplars exemplary exemplification exemplified exemplifies exemplify exemplifying exempt exempted exempting exemption exemptions exempts exercisable exercise exercised exerciser exercises exercising exert exerted exerting exertion exertions exerts exes exeunt exfoliation exhalation exhalations exhale exhaled exhales exhaling exhaust exhausted exhaustible exhausting exhaustion exhaustive exhaustively exhausts exhibit exhibited exhibiting exhibition exhibitioner exhibitioners exhibitionism exhibitionist exhibitionists exhibitions exhibitor exhibitors exhibits exhilarate exhilarated exhilarating exhilaration exhort exhortation exhortations exhorted exhorting exhorts exhumation exhume exhumed exhumes exhuming exhusband exigencies exigency exigent exiguous exile exiled exiles exiling exist existed existence existences existent existential existentialism existentialist existentialistic existentially existing exists exit exited exiting exits exmember exmembers exocrine exoderm exodus exogenous exogenously exonerate exonerated exonerates exonerating exoneration exorbitant exorbitantly exorcise exorcised exorcising exorcism exorcisms exorcist exoskeleton exothermic exothermically exotic exotica exotically exoticism expand expandability expandable expanded expander expanding expands expanse expanses expansible expansion expansionary expansionism expansionist expansions expansive expansively expansiveness expatriate expatriated expatriates expect expectancies expectancy expectant expectantly expectation expectational expectations expected expecting expectorate expectorated expectoration expects expedience expediency expedient expedients expedite expedited expedites expediting expedition expeditionary expeditions expeditious expeditiously expel expelled expelling expels expend expendable expended expending expenditure expenditures expends expense expenses expensive expensively experience experienced experiences experiencing experiential experiment experimental experimentalist experimentalists experimentally experimentation experimented experimenter experimenters experimenting experiments expert expertise expertly expertness experts expiate expiation expiatory expiration expiratory expire expired expires expiring expiry explain explainable explained explaining explains explanation explanations explanatory expletive expletives explicable explicate explicated explication explicative explicit explicitly explicitness explode exploded exploder exploders explodes exploding exploit exploitable exploitation exploitations exploitative exploited exploiter exploiters exploiting exploits explorable exploration explorations exploratory explore explored explorer explorers explores exploring explosion explosions explosive explosively explosiveness explosives expo exponent exponential exponentially exponentiation exponents export exportability exportable exported exporter exporters exporting exports expose exposed exposes exposing exposition expositions expository expostulate expostulated expostulating expostulation expostulations exposure exposures expound expounded expounding expounds express expressed expresses expressible expressing expression expressionism expressionist expressionistic expressionists expressionless expressionlessly expressions expressive expressively expressiveness expressly expropriate expropriated expropriation expropriations expulsion expulsions expunge expunged expunges expunging expurgate expurgated expurgating exquisite exquisitely exquisiteness ext extend extendability extendable extended extender extenders extendible extending extends extensibility extensible extension extensional extensionally extensions extensive extensively extensiveness extensors extent extents extenuate extenuated extenuating extenuation exterior exteriors exterminate exterminated exterminates exterminating extermination exterminations exterminator exterminators extern external externalised externally externals externs extinct extinction extinctions extinguish extinguished extinguisher extinguishers extinguishes extinguishing extinguishment extirpate extirpation extol extolled extolling extols extort extorted extorting extortion extortionate extortionately extortionists extorts extra extracellular extract extractable extracted extracting extraction extractions extractive extractor extracts extraditable extradite extradited extraditing extradition extragalactic extrajudicial extralinguistic extramarital extramural extraneous extraordinarily extraordinary extrapolate extrapolated extrapolating extrapolation extrapolations extras extrasolar extraterrestrial extraterrestrials extraterritorial extravagance extravagances extravagant extravagantly extravaganza extravaganzas extrema extremal extreme extremely extremes extremest extremism extremist extremists extremities extremity extricate extricated extricating extrication extrinsic extrinsically extroversion extrovert extroverts extrude extruded extrusion extrusions exuberance exuberant exuberantly exudate exude exuded exudes exuding exult exultant exultantly exultation exulted exulting exultingly exults exwife exwives eye eyeball eyeballs eyebrow eyebrows eyecatching eyed eyeful eyeglass eyeglasses eyeing eyelash eyelashes eyeless eyelet eyelets eyelevel eyelid eyelids eyelike eyeliner eyepatch eyepiece eyes eyeshadow eyesight eyesore eyesores eyeteeth eyetooth eyewash eyewitness eyewitnesses fab fable fabled fables fabric fabricate fabricated fabricates fabricating fabrication fabrications fabricator fabrics fabulists fabulous fabulously facade facades face faced faceless facelift faceplate facer facers faces facet faceted faceting facetious facetiously facetiousness facets facia facial facials facile facilitate facilitated facilitates facilitating facilitation facilitative facilitator facilitators facilities facility facing facings facsimile facsimiles fact faction factional factionalism factions factious factitious factor factored factorial factorials factories factoring factorisable factorisation factorisations factorise factorised factorises factorising factors factory factotum facts factual factually faculties faculty fad fade faded fadeout fades fading fads faecal faeces fag faggot faggots fagot fags fail failed failing failings fails failure failures faint fainted fainter faintest fainthearted fainting faintly faintness faints fair fairer fairest fairground fairgrounds fairies fairing fairish fairly fairness fairs fairsex fairway fairways fairy fairytale faith faithful faithfully faithfulness faithless faithlessness faiths fake faked fakers fakery fakes faking falcon falconer falconry falcons fall fallacies fallacious fallacy fallen faller fallers fallguy fallibility fallible falling fallopian fallout fallow falls false falsebay falsehood falsehoods falsely falseness falser falsetto falsifiability falsifiable falsification falsifications falsified falsifier falsifiers falsifies falsify falsifying falsities falsity falter faltered faltering falteringly falters fame famed familial familiar familiarisation familiarise familiarised familiarising familiarities familiarity familiarly families family famine famines famish famished famous famously fan fanatic fanatical fanatically fanaticism fanatics fanbelt fanciable fancied fancier fanciers fancies fanciest fanciful fancifully fancy fancying fandango fanfare fanfares fang fangs fanlight fanned fanning fanny fans fantail fantails fantasia fantastic far farad faraday faraway farce farces farcical fare fared fares farewell farewells farfetched farflung faring farm farmed farmer farmers farmhouse farmhouses farming farmings farmland farms farmstead farmsteads farmyard farmyards faroff farout farrago farreaching farrier farriers farrow farseeing farsighted farther farthest farthing farthings fascia fascias fascinate fascinated fascinates fascinating fascinatingly fascination fascinations fascism fascist fascists fashion fashionable fashionably fashioned fashioning fashions fast fasted fasten fastened fastener fasteners fastening fastenings fastens faster fastest fastidious fastidiously fastidiousness fasting fastings fastness fastnesses fasts fat fatal fatalism fatalist fatalistic fatalistically fatalities fatality fatally fatcat fate fated fateful fates fatheadedness father fathered fatherhood fathering fatherinlaw fatherland fatherless fatherly fathers fathersinlaw fathom fathomed fathoming fathomless fathoms fatigue fatigued fatigues fatiguing fatless fatness fats fatted fatten fattened fattening fattens fatter fattest fattier fattiest fatty fatuity fatuous fatuously fatwa faucet faucets fault faulted faulting faultless faultlessly faults faulty faun fauna faunal faunas fauns faust faustus favour favourable favourably favoured favouring favourite favourites favouritism favours fawn fawned fawning fawningly fawns fax faxed faxes faxing fealty fear feared fearful fearfully fearfulness fearing fearless fearlessly fearlessness fears fearsome fearsomely fearsomeness feasibility feasible feasibly feast feasted feasting feasts feat feather feathered feathering featherlight feathers featherweight feathery feats feature featured featureless features featuring febrile february feckless fecklessness fecund fecundity fed federal federalism federalist federalists federally federate federated federation federations fedora feds fedup fee feeble feebleminded feebleness feebler feeblest feebly feed feedback feeder feeders feeding feedings feeds feedstock feedstuffs feel feeler feelers feeling feelingly feelings feels fees feet feign feigned feigning feigns feint feinted feinting feints feldspar feldspars felicia felicitation felicitations felicities felicitous felicity feline felines fell fellatio felled feller felling fellow fellows fellowship fellowships fells felon felonious felons felony felt feltpen female femaleness females feminine femininely femininity feminism feminist feminists femur femurs fen fence fenced fencepost fencer fencers fences fencing fencings fend fended fender fenders fending fends fenland fennel fens feral ferment fermentation fermented fermenting ferments fermion fermions fern ferns ferny ferocious ferociously ferociousness ferocity ferret ferreted ferreting ferrets ferric ferried ferries ferrite ferromagnetic ferrous ferrule ferry ferrying ferryman fertile fertilisation fertilise fertilised fertiliser fertilisers fertilises fertilising fertility fervent fervently fervid fervidly fervour fescue fest festal fester festered festering festers festival festivals festive festivities festivity festoon festooned festooning festoons fetal fetch fetched fetches fetching fete feted fetes fetid fetish fetishes fetishism fetishist fetishistic fetishists fetlock fetlocks fetter fettered fetters fettle fetus feud feudal feudalism feuded feuding feudist feuds fever fevered feverish feverishly fevers few fewer fewest fewness fez fiance fiancee fiasco fiat fib fibbed fibber fibbers fibbing fibers fibre fibreboard fibred fibreglass fibres fibrillating fibrillation fibroblast fibroblasts fibrosis fibrous fibs fibula fiche fiches fickle fickleness fiction fictional fictions fictitious fictive ficus fiddle fiddled fiddler fiddlers fiddles fiddlesticks fiddling fiddlings fiddly fidelity fidget fidgeted fidgeting fidgets fidgety fiduciary fief fiefdom fiefdoms fiefs field fielded fielder fielders fielding fields fieldwork fieldworker fieldworkers fiend fiendish fiendishly fiends fierce fiercely fierceness fiercer fiercest fierier fieriest fierily fiery fiesta fiestas fife fifes fifteen fifteenth fifth fifthly fifths fifties fiftieth fifty fig fight fightback fighter fighters fighting fights figleaf figment figments figs figtree figural figuration figurative figuratively figure figured figurehead figureheads figurer figures figurine figurines figuring fiji fijians filament filamentary filamentous filaments filch filched file filed filer filers files filet filial filibuster filigree filing filings fill filled filler fillers fillet fillets fillies filling fillings fillip fills filly film filmed filmic filming filmmakers films filmset filmy filter filtered filtering filters filth filthier filthiest filthily filthy filtrate filtration fin final finale finales finalisation finalise finalised finalising finalist finalists finality finally finals finance financed finances financial financially financier financiers financing finch finches find findable finder finders finding findings finds fine fined finely fineness finer finery fines finesse finest finetune finetuned finetunes finetuning finger fingerboard fingered fingering fingerings fingerless fingermarks fingernail fingernails fingerprint fingerprinted fingerprinting fingerprints fingers fingertip fingertips finial finicky fining finis finish finished finisher finishers finishes finishing finite finitely finiteness finland finn finned finnish fins fiord fiords fir fire firearm firearms fireball fireballs firebomb firebombed firebombing firebombs firebox firebrand firecontrol fired firefight firefighter firefighters firefighting fireflies firefly fireguard firelight firelighters fireman firemen fireplace fireplaces firepower fireproof fireproofed firer fires fireside firesides firewood firework fireworks firing firings firkin firm firmament firmed firmer firmest firming firmly firmness firms firmware firs first firstaid firstborn firstborns firsthand firstly firsts firth fiscal fiscally fish fished fisher fisheries fisherman fishermen fishers fishery fishes fishhook fishhooks fishier fishiest fishing fishings fishlike fishmonger fishmongers fishnet fishwife fishy fissile fission fissions fissure fissured fissures fist fisted fistful fisticuffs fists fistula fit fitful fitfully fitfulness fitly fitment fitments fitness fits fitted fitter fitters fittest fitting fittingly fittings five fivefold fiver fivers fives fix fixable fixate fixated fixates fixation fixations fixative fixed fixedly fixer fixers fixes fixing fixings fixture fixtures fizz fizzed fizzes fizzier fizziest fizzing fizzle fizzled fizzles fizzy fjord fjords flab flabbergasted flabbier flabbiest flabby flabs flaccid flaccidity flack flag flagella flagellate flagellation flagged flagging flagon flagons flagpole flagrant flagrantly flags flagship flagships flair flak flake flaked flakes flakiest flaking flaky flamboyance flamboyant flamboyantly flame flamed flamenco flameproof flames flaming flamingo flammability flammable flan flange flanged flanges flank flanked flanker flanking flanks flannel flannelette flannels flans flap flapjack flapped flapper flappers flapping flaps flare flared flares flareup flareups flaring flash flashback flashbacks flashbulb flashed flasher flashes flashier flashiest flashily flashing flashlight flashlights flashpoint flashpoints flashy flask flasks flat flatfish flatly flatmate flatmates flatness flats flatten flattened flattening flattens flatter flattered flatterer flatterers flattering flatteringly flatters flattery flattest flattish flatulence flatulent flatus flatworms flaunt flaunted flaunting flaunts flautist flavour flavoured flavouring flavourings flavours flaw flawed flawless flawlessly flaws flax flaxen flay flayed flayer flayers flaying flea fleabites fleas fleck flecked flecks fled fledge fledged fledgeling fledges fledgling fledglings flee fleece fleeced fleeces fleecing fleecy fleeing flees fleet fleeted fleeter fleeting fleetingly fleetly fleets flemish flesh fleshed flesher fleshes fleshier fleshiest fleshing fleshless fleshly fleshpots fleshy flew flex flexed flexes flexibilities flexibility flexible flexibly flexile flexing flexion flexor flick flicked flicker flickered flickering flickers flickery flicking flicks flier fliers flies flight flighted flightless flightpath flights flighty flimsier flimsiest flimsily flimsiness flimsy flinch flinched flinching fling flinging flings flint flintlock flintlocks flints flinty flip flipflop flipflops flippable flippancy flippant flippantly flipped flipper flippers flipping flips flirt flirtation flirtations flirtatious flirtatiously flirted flirting flirts flit fliting flits flitted flitting float floated floater floaters floating floats floaty flock flocked flocking flocks floe flog flogged flogger floggers flogging floggings flogs flood flooded floodgates flooding floodlight floodlighting floodlights floodlit floods floor floorboard floorboards floored flooring floors floorspace floozie floozies floozy flop flopped flopper floppier floppies floppiest flopping floppy flops flora floral floras floreat florence floret florid florida floridly florin florins florist florists floss flosses flossing flossy flotation flotations flotilla flotillas flotsam flounce flounced flounces flouncing flounder floundered floundering flounders flour floured flourish flourished flourishes flourishing flours floury flout flouted flouting flouts flow flowed flower flowered flowering flowerless flowerpot flowerpots flowers flowery flowing flown flows flub flubbed fluctuate fluctuated fluctuates fluctuating fluctuation fluctuations flue fluency fluent fluently flues fluff fluffed fluffier fluffiest fluffing fluffs fluffy fluid fluidised fluidity fluidly fluids fluke flukes flukey flukier flukiest flumes flumped flung flunked fluor fluoresce fluorescence fluorescent fluoresces fluorescing fluoridation fluoride fluorine fluorocarbon fluorocarbons flurried flurries flurry flush flushed flusher flushes flushing fluster flustered flute fluted flutes fluting flutist flutter fluttered fluttering flutters fluttery fluvial flux fluxes fly flyaway flyer flyers flyhalf flying flyover flyovers flypaper flypast flyway flyways flyweight flywheel foal foaled foaling foals foam foamed foamier foamiest foaming foams foamy fob fobbed fobbing fobs focal focally foci focus focused focuses focusing focussed focusses focussing fodder fodders foe foehns foes foetal foetid foetus foetuses fog fogbank fogey fogged foggier foggiest fogging foggy foghorn foghorns fogs fogy foible foibles foil foiled foiling foils foist foisted foisting fold folded folder folders folding folds foliage foliate foliated folio folk folkart folkish folklore folklorist folklorists folks folktale follicle follicles follicular follies follow followable followed follower followers following followings follows folly foment fomented fomenting fond fondant fonder fondest fondle fondled fondles fondling fondly fondness fondue fondues font fontanel fonts food foodless foods foodstuff foodstuffs fool fooled foolery foolhardily foolhardiness foolhardy fooling foolish foolishly foolishness foolproof fools foolscap foot footage footages football footballer footballers footballing footballs footbath footbridge footed footfall footfalls footgear foothill foothills foothold footholds footing footings footless footlights footloose footman footmarks footmen footnote footnotes footpads footpath footpaths footplate footprint footprints footrest foots footsie footsore footstep footsteps footstool footstools footway footwear footwork fop fops for forage foraged foragers forages foraging foramen foray forays forbad forbade forbear forbearance forbearing forbears forbid forbidden forbidding forbiddingly forbids forbore force forced forcefeed forcefeeding forceful forcefully forcefulness forceps forces forcible forcibly forcing ford forded fording fords fore forearm forearmed forearms forebear forebears foreboded foreboding forebodings forebrain forecast forecaster forecasters forecasting forecasts foreclose foreclosed foreclosure forecourt forecourts foredeck forefather forefathers forefinger forefingers forefront foregather foregathered forego foregoing foregone foreground foregrounded foregrounding foregrounds forehand forehead foreheads foreign foreigner foreigners foreignness foreknowledge foreland foreleg forelegs forelimbs forelock foreman foremen foremost forename forenames forensic forensically forepaw forepaws foreplay forerunner forerunners foresail foresaw foresee foreseeability foreseeable foreseeing foreseen foresees foreshadow foreshadowed foreshadowing foreshadows foreshore foreshores foreshortened foreshortening foresight foreskin foreskins forest forestall forestalled forestalling forestalls forested forester foresters forestry forests foretaste foretastes foretell foretelling forethought foretold forever forewarn forewarned forewarning foreword forewords forfeit forfeited forfeiting forfeits forfeiture forgave forge forged forger forgeries forgers forgery forges forget forgetful forgetfulness forgetmenot forgetmenots forgets forgettable forgetting forging forgings forgivable forgive forgiven forgiveness forgives forgiving forgo forgoing forgone forgot forgotten fork forked forking forks forlorn forlornly forlornness form formal formaldehyde formalin formalisation formalisations formalise formalised formalises formalising formalism formalisms formalist formalistic formalities formality formally formant format formated formation formations formative formats formatted formatting formed former formerly formers formic formidable formidably forming formless formlessness formosa forms formula formulae formulaic formulary formulas formulate formulated formulates formulating formulation formulations formulator fornicate fornicated fornicates fornicating fornication fornicator fornicators forsake forsaken forsakes forsaking forsook forswear forswearing forswore forsworn forsythia fort forte forth forthcoming forthright forthrightly forthrightness forthwith forties fortieth fortification fortifications fortified fortify fortifying fortissimo fortitude fortknox fortnight fortnightly fortnights fortress fortresses forts fortuitous fortuitously fortunate fortunately fortune fortunes fortuneteller fortunetellers fortunetelling forty forum forums forward forwarded forwarder forwarding forwardlooking forwardly forwardness forwards fossa fossil fossiliferous fossilise fossilised fossilising fossils foster fostered fostering fosters fought foul fouled fouler foulest fouling foully foulmouthed foulness fouls foulup foulups found foundation foundational foundations founded founder foundered foundering founders founding foundling foundries foundry founds fount fountain fountains founts four fourfold fours foursome fourteen fourteenth fourth fourthly fourths fowl fowls fox foxed foxes foxhole foxholes foxhounds foxhunt foxhunting foxhunts foxier foxiest foxily foxiness foxing foxtrot foxtrots foxy foyer foyers fracas fractal fractals fraction fractional fractionally fractionate fractionated fractionating fractionation fractions fractious fracture fractured fractures fracturing fragile fragility fragment fragmentary fragmentation fragmented fragmenting fragments fragrance fragrances fragrant frail frailer frailest frailly frailties frailty frame framed framer framers frames frameup framework frameworks framing franc france franchise franchised franchisee franchisees franchises franchising franchisor francophone francs frangipani frank franked franker frankest frankfurter frankincense franking frankly frankness franks frantic frantically fraternal fraternise fraternising fraternities fraternity fratricidal fratricide fraud frauds fraudster fraudsters fraudulent fraudulently fraught fray frayed fraying frays frazzle frazzled freak freaked freakish freaks freaky freckle freckled freckles free freebie freebooters freed freedom freedoms freefall freefalling freeforall freehand freehold freeholder freeholders freeholds freeing freelance freelancer freelancers freelances freelancing freely freeman freemasonry freemen freer freerange frees freesia freesias freestanding freestyle freeway freewheeling freewheels freeze freezer freezers freezes freezing freight freighted freighter freighters freights french frenetic frenetically frenzied frenziedly frenzies frenzy freon freons frequencies frequency frequent frequented frequenting frequently frequents fresco fresh freshen freshened freshener fresheners freshening freshens fresher freshers freshest freshly freshman freshmen freshness freshwater fret fretboard fretful fretfully fretfulness fretless frets fretsaw fretsaws fretted fretting fretwork freud freya friable friar friars friary fricative fricatives friction frictional frictionless frictions friday fridays fridge fridges fried friend friendless friendlessness friendlier friendlies friendliest friendlily friendliness friendly friends friendship friendships friers fries frieze friezes frigate frigates fright frighted frighten frightened frighteners frightening frighteningly frightens frightful frightfully frights frigid frigidity frigidly frijole frill frilled frillier frilliest frills frilly fringe fringed fringes fringing fringy frippery frisk frisked friskier friskiest friskily frisking frisks frisky frisson fritter frittered frittering fritters frivol frivolities frivolity frivolous frivolously frivols frizzle frizzles frizzy fro frock frocks frog froggy frogman frogmarched frogmen frogs frolic frolicked frolicking frolics frolicsome from frond fronds front frontage frontages frontal frontally frontals fronted frontier frontiers fronting frontispiece frontispieces frontline frontpage fronts frost frostbite frostbitten frosted frostier frostiest frostily frosting frosts frosty froth frothed frothier frothiest frothing froths frothy froward frown frowned frowning frowningly frowns froze frozen fructose frugal frugality frugally fruit fruitcake fruitcakes fruited fruiter fruitful fruitfully fruitfulness fruitier fruitiest fruitiness fruiting fruition fruitless fruitlessly fruitlessness fruits fruity frumps frumpy frustrate frustrated frustratedly frustrates frustrating frustratingly frustration frustrations frustum fry fryer fryers frying fryings fuchsia fuchsias fuddle fuddled fuddles fudge fudged fudges fudging fuel fuelled fuelling fuels fug fugal fugitive fugitives fugue fugues fuhrer fulcrum fulfil fulfilled fulfilling fulfilment fulfils full fullback fullbacks fullblooded fullblown fullbodied fullcolour fuller fullest fullgrown fulling fullish fulllength fullmoon fullness fullpage fullscale fullstop fullstops fulltime fulltimer fulltimers fully fulminant fulminate fulminating fulmination fulminations fulsome fulsomely fumarole fumaroles fumble fumbled fumbles fumbling fume fumed fumes fumigate fumigating fumigation fuming fumingly fun function functional functionalism functionalist functionalities functionality functionally functionaries functionary functioned functioning functionless functions fund fundamental fundamentalism fundamentalist fundamentalists fundamentally fundamentals funded fundholders fundholding funding fundings fundraiser fundraisers fundraising funds funeral funerals funerary funereal funfair fungal fungi fungicidal fungicide fungicides fungoid fungous fungus funguses funicular funk funked funkier funky funnel funnelled funnelling funnels funnier funnies funniest funnily funny fur furbished furbishing furies furious furiously furled furling furlong furlongs furlough furls furnace furnaces furnish furnished furnishers furnishes furnishing furnishings furniture furore furores furred furrier furriers furriest furriness furring furrow furrowed furrows furry furs further furtherance furthered furthering furthermore furthers furthest furtive furtively furtiveness fury furze fuse fused fuselage fuses fusible fusilier fusiliers fusillade fusing fusion fusions fuss fussed fusses fussier fussiest fussily fussiness fussing fussy fustian fusty futile futilely futility futon future futures futurism futurist futuristic futurists futurity futurologists fuzz fuzzed fuzzes fuzzier fuzziest fuzzily fuzziness fuzzy gab gabble gabbled gabbles gabbling gaberdine gable gabled gables gabon gad gadded gadding gadfly gadget gadgetry gadgets gaff gaffe gaffes gag gaga gage gagged gagging gaggle gaggled gaging gags gagster gaiety gaijin gaily gain gained gainer gainers gainful gainfully gaining gainly gains gainsay gainsaying gait gaiter gaiters gaits gal gala galactic galas galaxies galaxy gale galena gales galilean galileo gall gallant gallantly gallantries gallantry gallants galled galleon galleons galleried galleries gallery galley galleys gallic galling gallium gallivanted gallivanting gallon gallons gallop galloped galloping gallops gallows galls gallstones galop galore galoshes gals galvanic galvanise galvanised galvanising galvanometer galvanometric gambia gambian gambit gambits gamble gambled gambler gamblers gambles gambling gambol gambolling gambols game gamed gamekeeper gamekeepers gamely gamers games gamesmanship gamesmen gamete gametes gaming gamma gammon gamut gamy gander ganders gandhi gang ganged ganger gangers ganges ganging gangland ganglia gangling ganglion ganglionic gangly gangplank gangrene gangrenous gangs gangster gangsterism gangsters gangway gangways gannet gannets gantries gantry gaol gaoled gaoler gaolers gaols gap gape gaped gapes gaping gapingly gaps garage garaged garages garb garbage garbed garble garbled garbles garbling garbs garden gardener gardeners gardening gardens gargantuan gargle gargled gargles gargling gargoyle gargoyles garish garishly garland garlanded garlands garlic garment garments garner garnered garnering garnet garnets garnish garnished garnishing garotte garotted garottes garotting garret garrets garrison garrisoned garrisons garrotte garrotted garrottes garrotting garrulous garter garters gas gaseous gases gash gashed gashes gashing gasholder gasify gasket gaskets gaslight gasometer gasp gasped gasper gasping gasps gassed gasses gassier gassiest gassing gassy gastrectomy gastric gastritis gastroenteritis gastrointestinal gastronomic gastronomy gastropod gastropods gasworks gate gateau gateaus gateaux gatecrash gatecrashed gatecrasher gatecrashers gatecrashing gated gatehouse gatehouses gatekeeper gatekeepers gatepost gateposts gates gateway gateways gather gathered gatherer gatherers gathering gatherings gathers gating gauche gaucheness gaucherie gaud gaudiest gaudily gaudiness gaudy gauge gauged gauges gauging gaul gauls gaunt gaunter gauntlet gauntlets gauntly gauze gave gavel gavial gavials gavotte gawk gawking gawky gawpin gay gayest gays gaze gazebo gazed gazelle gazelles gazes gazette gazetteer gazettes gazing gdansk gear gearbox gearboxes geared gearing gears gearstick gecko geek geeks geese geezer geiger geisha geishas gel gelatin gelatine gelatinous gelding geldings gelignite gelled gels gem gemini gemmed gems gemsbok gemstone gemstones gen gender gendered genderless genders gene genealogical genealogies genealogist genealogy genera general generalisable generalisation generalisations generalise generalised generalises generalising generalist generalists generalities generality generally generals generalship generate generated generates generating generation generational generations generative generator generators generic generically generosities generosity generous generously genes genesis genetic genetically geneticist geneticists genetics genets geneva genial geniality genially genie genii genital genitalia genitals genitive genitives genius geniuses genoa genocidal genocide genome genomes genomic genotype genotypes genre genres gent genteel genteelest genteelly gentians gentile gentiles gentility gentle gentlefolk gentleman gentlemanly gentlemen gentleness gentler gentlest gentling gently gentrification gentrified gentrifying gentry gents genuflect genuflections genuine genuinely genuineness genus geocentric geochemical geochemistry geodesic geodesics geographer geographers geographic geographical geographically geography geologic geological geologically geologist geologists geology geomagnetic geomagnetically geomagnetism geometer geometers geometric geometrical geometrically geometries geometry geomorphological geomorphologists geomorphology geophysical geophysicist geophysicists geophysics geopolitical george georgia geoscientific geostationary geosynchronous geothermal geranium geraniums gerbil gerbils geriatric geriatrics germ german germane germanic germanium germans germany germicidal germicides germinal germinate germinated germinating germination germs gerontocracy gerontologist gerontology gerrymander gerrymandered gerund gerundive gestalt gestapo gestate gestating gestation gestational gesticulate gesticulated gesticulating gesticulation gesticulations gestural gesture gestured gestures gesturing get getable getaway getrichquick gets gettable getter getting geyser geysers ghana ghanian ghastlier ghastliest ghastliness ghastly gherkin gherkins ghetto ghost ghosted ghosting ghostlier ghostliest ghostlike ghostly ghosts ghoul ghoulish ghouls giant giantess giantism giantkiller giantkillers giants gibber gibbered gibbering gibberish gibbet gibbets gibbon gibbons gibbous gibed gibes giblets giddier giddiest giddily giddiness giddy gift gifted gifting gifts giftware gig gigabytes gigantic gigantically gigavolt giggle giggled giggles giggling giggly gigolo gilded gilders gilding gilds gill gillie gills gilt giltedged gilts gimcrack gimlet gimlets gimmick gimmickry gimmicks gimmicky gin ginger gingerbread gingerly gingers gingery gingham gingivitis gins ginseng gipsies gipsy giraffe giraffes gird girded girder girders girding girdle girdled girdles girdling girl girlfriend girlfriends girlhood girlie girlish girlishly girlishness girls giro girt girth girths gist give giveaway given giver givers gives giving givings gizzard glace glacial glacially glaciated glaciation glaciations glacier glaciers glaciological glaciologist glaciologists glaciology glad gladden gladdened gladdening gladdens gladder gladdest glade glades gladiator gladiatorial gladiators gladioli gladiolus gladly gladness glamorous glamour glance glanced glances glancing gland glands glandular glans glare glared glares glaring glaringly glasgow glasnost glass glassed glasses glassful glasshouse glasshouses glassier glassiest glassless glassware glassy glaucoma glaucous glaze glazed glazer glazes glazier glaziers glazing gleam gleamed gleaming gleams glean gleaned gleaning gleanings gleans glebe glee gleeful gleefully gleefulness glen glenn glens glia glib glibly glibness glide glided glider gliders glides gliding glim glimmer glimmered glimmering glimmerings glimmers glimpse glimpsed glimpses glimpsing glint glinted glinting glints glisten glistened glistening glistens glitter glittered glittering glitters glittery glitzy gloaming gloat gloated gloating glob global globalisation globally globe globed globes globetrotters globetrotting globose globular globule globules gloom gloomful gloomier gloomiest gloomily gloominess glooms gloomy gloried glories glorification glorified glorifies glorify glorifying glorious gloriously glory glorying gloss glossaries glossary glossed glosses glossier glossiest glossily glossing glossy glottal glove gloved gloves glow glowed glower glowered glowering glowers glowing glowingly glows glowworm glowworms glucose glue glued glueing glues gluey gluing glum glumly gluon glut glutamate gluten glutinous glutted glutton gluttonous gluttons gluttony glycerine glycerol glycine glycol glyph glyphs gnarl gnarled gnarling gnarls gnash gnashed gnashes gnashing gnat gnats gnaw gnawed gnawer gnawers gnawing gnaws gneiss gnome gnomes gnomic gnostic gnosticism gnu gnus go goad goaded goading goads goahead goal goalies goalkeeper goalkeepers goalkeeping goalless goalmouth goalpost goalposts goals goalscorer goalscorers goalscoring goat goatee goatees goats goatskin gobbet gobbets gobble gobbled gobbledegook gobbledygook gobbler gobbles gobbling gobetween gobi gobies goblet goblets goblin goblins god godchild goddess goddesses godfather godfathers godforsaken godhead godless godlessness godlier godlike godliness godly godmother godmothers godparents gods godsend godson godsons goer goers goes goethe gofer goggled goggles goggling going goings goitre goitres gold golden goldfish golds goldsmith goldsmiths golf golfer golfers golfing golgotha goliath golliwog golly gonad gonads gondola gondolas gondolier gondoliers gone gong gongs gonorrhoea goo good goodbye goodbyes goodfornothing goodfornothings goodhope goodhumoured goodhumouredly goodies goodish goodlooking goodly goodnatured goodnaturedly goodness goodnight goods goodtempered goodwill goody gooey goof goofed goofing goofs goofy googlies googly goon goons goose gooseberries gooseberry goosestep goosestepping gopher gophers gordian gore gored gores gorge gorged gorgeous gorgeously gorgeousness gorges gorging gorgon gorgons gorier goriest gorilla gorillas goring gormless gorse gory gosh gosling goslings goslow goslows gospel gospels gossamer gossip gossiped gossiping gossips gossipy got goth gothic goths gotten gouda gouge gouged gouges gouging goulash gourd gourds gourmand gourmet gourmets gout govern governance governed governess governesses governing government governmental governments governor governors governorship governorships governs gown gowned gowns grab grabbed grabber grabbers grabbing grabs grace graced graceful gracefully gracefulness graceless gracelessly graces gracing gracious graciously graciousness gradation gradations grade graded grader graders grades gradient gradients grading gradings gradual gradualism gradualist gradually graduand graduands graduate graduated graduates graduating graduation graduations graffiti graffito graft grafted grafting grafts graham grail grails grain grained grainier grainiest graininess grains grainy gram grammar grammarian grammarians grammars grammatical grammatically gramme grammes gramophone gramophones grams granaries granary grand grandads grandchild grandchildren granddad granddaughter granddaughters grandee grandees grander grandest grandeur grandfather grandfathers grandiloquent grandiose grandiosity grandly grandma grandmas grandmaster grandmasters grandmother grandmothers grandpa grandparent grandparents grandpas grands grandson grandsons grandstand grange granite granites granitic grannie grannies granny grant granted grantee granting grants granular granularity granulated granulation granule granules granulocyte grape grapefruit grapes grapeshot grapevine graph graphed graphic graphical graphically graphics graphite graphologist graphologists graphology graphs grapnel grapple grappled grapples grappling graptolites grasp grasped grasper grasping grasps grass grassed grasses grasshopper grasshoppers grassier grassiest grassland grasslands grassroots grassy grate grated grateful gratefully grater graters grates graticule gratification gratifications gratified gratifies gratify gratifying gratifyingly grating gratings gratis gratitude gratuities gratuitous gratuitously gratuitousness gratuity grave gravedigger gravediggers gravel gravelled gravelly gravels gravely graven graver graves graveside gravest gravestone gravestones graveyard graveyards gravies gravitas gravitate gravitated gravitating gravitation gravitational gravitationally gravities graviton gravitons gravity gravures gravy graze grazed grazer grazes grazing grease greased greasepaint greaseproof greasers greases greasier greasiest greasing greasy great greataunt greataunts greatcoat greatcoats greater greatest greatgrandchildren greatgranddaughter greatgrandfather greatgrandmother greatgrandmothers greatgrandson greatly greatness grecian greece greed greedier greediest greedily greediness greeds greedy greek greeks green greened greener greenery greenest greeneyed greenfield greenfly greengages greengrocer greengrocers greengrocery greenhorn greenhorns greenhouse greenhouses greenie greening greenish greenly greenness greens greenstone greensward greenwich greet greeted greeting greetings greets gregarious gregariously gregariousness gremlin gremlins grenade grenades grenadier grenadiers grew grey greybeard greyed greyer greyest greyhound greyhounds greying greyish greyness greys grid gridded gridiron gridlock grids grief griefs grievance grievances grieve grieved griever grievers grieves grieving grievous grievously griffin griffins griffon grill grille grilled grilles grilling grills grim grimace grimaced grimaces grimacing grime grimiest grimly grimm grimmer grimmest grimness grimy grin grind grinded grinder grinders grinding grinds grindstone grinned grinner grinning grins grip gripe griped gripes griping gripped gripper grippers gripping grips grislier grisliest grisly grist gristle grit grits gritted grittier grittiest gritting gritty grizzled grizzlier grizzliest grizzly groan groaned groaner groaners groaning groans groat groats grocer groceries grocers grocery grog groggiest groggily groggy groin groins grommet grommets groom groomed groomer groomers grooming grooms groove grooved grooves groovier grooving groovy grope groped groper gropers gropes groping gropingly gropings gross grossed grosser grossest grossly grossness grotesque grotesquely grotesqueness grotto grouch grouchy ground grounded grounding groundless groundnut groundnuts grounds groundsheet groundsman groundswell groundwater groundwork group grouped grouper groupie groupies grouping groupings groups grouse grouses grout grouting grove grovel grovelled groveller grovelling grovels groves grow grower growers growing growl growled growler growling growls grown grownup grownups grows growth growths grub grubbed grubbier grubbiest grubbing grubby grubs grudge grudges grudging grudgingly gruel grueling gruelling gruesome gruesomely gruesomeness gruff gruffly gruffness grumble grumbled grumbler grumbles grumbling grumblings grumpier grumpiest grumpily grumps grumpy grunge grunt grunted grunter grunting grunts guacamole guanaco guanine guano guarantee guaranteed guaranteeing guarantees guarantor guarantors guard guarded guardedly guardedness guardhouse guardian guardians guardianship guarding guardroom guards guardsman guardsmen guava guavas gubernatorial gudgeon guerilla guerillas guerrilla guerrillas guess guessable guessed guesses guessing guesswork guest guesting guests guffaw guffawed guffaws guidance guide guidebook guidebooks guided guideline guidelines guider guiders guides guiding guidings guild guilder guilders guilds guile guileless guilelessness guillemot guillemots guillotine guillotined guillotines guillotining guilt guiltier guiltiest guiltily guiltiness guiltless guilts guilty guinea guineas guise guises guitar guitarist guitarists guitars gulf gulfs gulfwar gull gullet gullets gulley gulleys gullibility gullible gullies gulls gully gulp gulped gulping gulps gum gumboil gumboils gumboots gumdrop gumdrops gummed gumming gums gumshoe gumtree gumtrees gun gunboat gunboats gunfight gunfire gunfires gunite gunk gunman gunmen gunmetal gunned gunner gunners gunnery gunning gunpoint gunpowder guns gunship gunships gunshot gunshots gunsight gunsmith gunsmiths gunwale gunwales guppies guppy gurgle gurgled gurgles gurgling guru gurus gush gushed gusher gushes gushing gusset gust gusted gustier gustiest gusting gusto gusts gusty gut gutless guts gutsier gutsy gutted gutter guttered guttering gutters guttersnipe guttersnipes gutting guttural gutturally guy guys guzzle guzzled guzzler guzzlers guzzling gym gymkhana gymnasia gymnasium gymnasiums gymnast gymnastic gymnastics gymnasts gyms gynaecological gynaecologist gynaecologists gynaecology gypsies gypsum gypsy gyrate gyrated gyrates gyrating gyration gyrations gyro gyromagnetic gyroscope gyroscopes gyroscopic ha haberdasher haberdashers haberdashery habit habitability habitable habitat habitation habitations habitats habitforming habits habitual habitually habituate habituated habituation hacienda hack hackable hacked hacker hackers hacking hackle hackles hackling hackney hackneyed hacks hacksaw had haddock haddocks hades hadnt hadron hadrons haematological haematologist haematology haematoma haematuria haemoglobin haemolytic haemophilia haemophiliac haemophiliacs haemorrhage haemorrhages haemorrhagic haemorrhaging haemorrhoid haemorrhoids haft hafts hag haggard haggardness haggis haggle haggled haggler haggling hagiography hags haha haiku hail hailed hailing hails hailstone hailstones hailstorm hailstorms hair hairbrush haircare haircut haircuts hairdo hairdresser hairdressers hairdressing haired hairier hairiest hairiness hairless hairline hairnet hairpiece hairpin hairpins hairraising hairs hairsplitting hairspray hairsprays hairstyle hairstyles hairstyling hairy haiti haitian hake hakea hale half halfhearted halfheartedly halfheartedness halfhour halfhourly halfhours halfsister halftruth halftruths halfway halibut halifax halite halitosis hall hallelujah hallmark hallmarks hallo hallow hallowed hallows halls hallucinate hallucinated hallucinating hallucination hallucinations hallucinatory hallway hallways halo haloed halogen halogenated halogens halon halons halt halted halter haltered halters halting haltingly halts halve halved halves halving ham hamburg hamburger hamburgers hamitic hamlet hamlets hammer hammered hammerhead hammering hammers hammock hammocks hamper hampered hampering hampers hams hamster hamsters hamstring hamstrings hamstrung hand handbag handbags handball handbasin handbell handbill handbills handbook handbooks handbrake handbrakes handcar handcart handcuff handcuffed handcuffing handcuffs handed handedness handel handful handfuls handgun handguns handhold handholds handicap handicapped handicapping handicaps handicraft handicrafts handier handiest handily handing handiwork handkerchief handkerchiefs handle handlebar handlebars handled handler handlers handles handling handmade handmaiden handmaidens handout handouts handover handovers handpicked handrail handrails hands handset handsets handshake handshakes handshaking handsome handsomely handsomeness handsomer handsomest handstand handstands handwriting handwritten handy handyman handymen hang hangar hangars hangdog hanged hanger hangers hangglide hangglided hangglider hanggliders hangglides hanggliding hanging hangings hangman hangmen hangouts hangover hangovers hangs hangup hanker hankered hankering hankers hankie hankies hanoi hanover hansard hansom haphazard haphazardly hapless happen happened happening happenings happens happier happiest happily happiness happy happygolucky harangue harangued harangues haranguing harare harass harassed harassers harasses harassing harassment harbinger harbingers harbour harboured harbouring harbours hard hardback hardbacks hardboard hardboiled hardcore hardearned harden hardened hardener hardeners hardening hardens harder hardest hardheaded hardhearted hardheartedness hardhit hardhitting hardier hardiest hardily hardiness hardline hardliner hardliners hardly hardness hardpressed hardship hardships hardup hardware hardwood hardwoods hardworking hardy hare harebell harebells harebrained hared harem harems hares hark harked harken harkened harkens harking harks harlequin harlequins harlot harlots harm harmed harmer harmful harmfully harmfulness harming harmless harmlessly harmlessness harmonic harmonica harmonically harmonics harmonies harmonious harmoniously harmonisation harmonise harmonised harmonising harmonium harmony harms harness harnessed harnesses harnessing harp harped harping harpist harpists harpoon harpoons harps harpsichord harpsichords harridan harried harrier harriers harrow harrowed harrowing harrows harry harrying harsh harshen harshens harsher harshest harshly harshness hart harts harvard harvest harvested harvester harvesters harvesting harvests has hasbeen hasbeens hash hashed hashes hashing hashish hasnt hasp hassle haste hasted hasten hastened hastening hastens hastes hastier hastiest hastily hastiness hasty hat hatch hatchback hatchbacks hatched hatcheries hatchery hatches hatchet hatchets hatching hatchway hate hated hateful hatefully hater haters hates hatful hating hatless hatrack hatracks hatred hatreds hats hatstands hatted hatter hatters hattrick hattricks haughtier haughtiest haughtily haughtiness haughty haul haulage haulages hauled hauler haulers haulier hauliers hauling haulms hauls haunch haunches haunt haunted haunting hauntingly haunts hauteur havana have haven havenots havens havent havering haversack haves having havoc hawaii hawaiian hawk hawked hawker hawkers hawking hawkish hawks hawser hawsers hawthorn hawthorns hay haydn hayfever hayfield hayloft haystack haystacks haywain haywire hazard hazarded hazarding hazardous hazards haze hazel hazelnut hazelnuts hazier haziest hazily haziness hazy he head headache headaches headband headbands headboard headboards headcount headdress headdresses headed header headers headfast headgear headhunted headhunters headier headiest heading headings headlamp headlamps headland headlands headless headlight headlights headline headlined headlines headlining headlock headlong headman headmaster headmasters headmastership headmen headmistress headmistresses headnote headon headphone headphones headpiece headquarters headrest headroom heads headscarf headscarves headset headsets headship headstand headstock headstone headstones headstrong headwaters headway headwind headwinds headword headwords headwork heady heal healed healer healers healing heals health healthful healthier healthiest healthily healthiness healths healthy heap heaped heaping heaps hear hearable heard hearer hearers hearing hearings hearken hearkened hearkening hearkens hears hearsay hearse hearses heart heartache heartbeat heartbeats heartbreak heartbreaking heartbreaks heartbroken heartburn hearten heartened heartening heartfelt hearth hearthrug hearths hearties heartiest heartily heartiness heartland heartlands heartless heartlessly heartlessness heartrending hearts heartsearching heartstrings hearttoheart heartwarming heartwood hearty heat heated heatedly heater heaters heath heathen heathenish heathenism heathens heather heathers heathery heathland heaths heating heatresistant heats heatwave heave heaved heaveho heaven heavenly heavens heavensent heavenward heavenwards heaves heavier heavies heaviest heavily heaviness heaving heavings heavy heavyduty heavyweight heavyweights hebrew hebrews heck heckle heckled heckler hecklers heckles heckling hectare hectares hectic hectically hectolitres hector hectoring hedge hedged hedgehog hedgehogs hedgerow hedgerows hedges hedging hedonism hedonist hedonistic hedonists heed heeded heedful heeding heedless heedlessly heedlessness heeds heel heeled heels heft hefted heftier hefting hefty hegemonic hegemony heifer heifers height heighten heightened heightening heightens heights heinous heir heiress heiresses heirloom heirlooms heirs heist heists held helen helical helices helicopter helicopters heliocentric heliography heliosphere heliotrope helipad helium helix helixes hell hellenic hellfire hellish hellishly hello hellraiser hells helm helmet helmeted helmets helms helmsman helots help helped helper helpers helpful helpfully helpfulness helping helpings helpless helplessly helplessness helpline helplines helpmate helpmates helps helsinki helterskelter hem heman hemen hemisphere hemispheres hemispheric hemispherical hemline hemlines hemlock hemmed hemming hemp hems hen hence henceforth henceforward henchman henchmen henge henna henpeck henry hens hepatic hepatitis heptagon heptagonal heptagons heptane her herald heralded heraldic heralding heraldry heralds herb herbaceous herbage herbal herbalism herbalist herbalists herbicide herbicides herbivore herbivores herbivorous herbs herd herded herding herds herdsman herdsmen here hereabouts hereafter hereby hereditary heredity herein hereinafter hereof heresies heresy heretic heretical heretics hereto heretofore hereunder hereupon herewith heritability heritable heritage heritors herm hermaphrodite hermaphrodites hermaphroditic hermeneutic hermeneutics hermetic hermetically hermit hermitage hermits hernia hernias hero herod heroic heroical heroically heroics heroin heroine heroines heroism heron heronry herons herpes herring herringbone herrings hers herself hertz hesitancy hesitant hesitantly hesitate hesitated hesitates hesitating hesitatingly hesitation hesitations heterodox heterodoxy heterogeneity heterogeneous heterologous heterosexist heterosexual heterosexuality heterosexually heterosexuals heterozygous heuristic heuristically heuristics hew hewed hewer hewing hewn hex hexadecimal hexagon hexagonal hexagons hexagram hexagrams hexameter hexane hexed hey heyday heydays hi hiatus hiatuses hibernal hibernate hibernating hibernation hibiscus hic hiccough hiccup hiccups hickory hid hidden hide hideandseek hideaway hideaways hidebound hideous hideously hideousness hideout hideouts hider hides hiding hidings hierarch hierarchic hierarchical hierarchically hierarchies hierarchy hieratic hieroglyph hieroglyphic hieroglyphics hieroglyphs higgledypiggledy high highbrow higher highest highhandedness highheeled highish highjack highland highlander highlanders highlands highlight highlighted highlighter highlighting highlights highly highness highpitched highpoint highranking highs highspirited hight highway highwayman highwaymen highways hijack hijacked hijacker hijackers hijacking hijackings hijacks hike hiked hiker hikers hikes hiking hilarious hilariously hilarity hill hilled hillier hilliest hillman hillock hillocks hillocky hills hillside hillsides hilltop hilltops hillwalking hilly hilt hilts him himself hind hindbrain hinder hindered hinderer hindering hinders hindmost hindquarters hindrance hindrances hindsight hindu hinduism hinge hinged hinges hinnies hinny hint hinted hinterland hinterlands hinting hints hip hipbone hippie hippies hippo hippocampus hippodrome hippopotamus hippy hips hipster hipsters hire hired hireling hirer hires hiring hirings hirsute hirsuteness his hispanic hiss hissed hisses hissing hissings histamine histogram histograms histological histologically histologists histology historian historians historic historical historically historicist histories historiographical historiography history histrionic histrionics hit hitandrun hitch hitched hitcher hitches hitchhike hitchhiked hitchhiker hitchhikers hitchhiking hitching hither hitherto hitler hits hittable hitters hitting hive hived hives hiving hmm ho hoar hoard hoarded hoarder hoarders hoarding hoardings hoards hoarfrost hoarse hoarsely hoarseness hoarser hoary hoax hoaxed hoaxer hoaxers hoaxes hoaxing hob hobbies hobbit hobble hobbled hobbles hobbling hobby hobbyist hobbyists hobgoblin hobgoblins hobnailed hobnails hobo hobs hock hockey hocks hocus hocuspocus hod hoe hoed hoeing hoes hog hogg hogged hogger hogging hoggs hogs hogwash hoist hoisted hoisting hoists hold holdable holdall holdalls holder holders holding holdings holdout holds holdup holdups hole holed holeinone holes holiday holidaying holidaymaker holidaymakers holidays holier holies holiest holily holiness holing holism holistic holistically holland holler hollered hollies hollow hollowed hollowly hollowness hollows holly hollyhocks holmes holocaust holocausts hologram holograms holographic holography holster holsters holy homage homages hombre home homecoming homecomings homed homeland homelands homeless homelessness homelier homeliness homely homemade homeowner homeowners homes homesick homesickness homespun homestead homesteads homeward homewardbound homewards homework homicidal homicide homicides homiest homilies homily homing hominid hominids homoeopathic homoeopathy homogenates homogeneity homogeneous homogeneously homogenisation homogenise homogenised homogenising homological homologies homologous homologue homologues homology homomorphism homomorphisms homonym homonyms homophobes homophobia homophobic homophones homophony homosexual homosexuality homosexually homosexuals homotopy homozygous homunculus homy hone honed hones honest honestly honesty honey honeybee honeycomb honeycombed honeycombing honeydew honeyed honeymoon honeymooners honeymoons honeysuckle honeysuckles honing honk honking honks honorarium honorary honorific honors honour honourable honourably honoured honouring honours honshu hood hooded hoodlum hoodlums hoods hoodwink hoodwinked hoodwinking hoof hoofs hook hookah hooked hooker hookers hooking hooknosed hooks hooky hooligan hooliganism hooligans hoop hooped hoops hooray hoot hooted hooter hooters hooting hoots hoover hoovered hoovering hooves hop hope hoped hopeful hopefully hopefulness hopefuls hopeless hopelessly hopelessness hopes hoping hopped hopper hoppers hopping hops horde hordes horizon horizons horizontal horizontally horizontals hormonal hormonally hormone hormones horn hornbeam hornbills horned hornet hornets hornpipe hornpipes horns horny horoscope horoscopes horrendous horrendously horrible horribly horrid horridly horrific horrifically horrified horrifies horrify horrifying horrifyingly horror horrors horrorstricken horse horseback horsebox horseflesh horsefly horsehair horseless horseman horsemen horseplay horsepower horseradish horses horseshoe horseshoes horsewhip horsewhipped horsey horsing horticultural horticulture horticulturist horticulturists hosanna hosannas hose hosed hosepipe hoses hosier hosiery hosing hospice hospices hospitable hospitably hospital hospitalisation hospitalised hospitality hospitals host hosta hostage hostages hosted hostel hostelries hostelry hostels hostess hostesses hostile hostilely hostilities hostility hosting hostler hosts hot hotair hotbed hotbeds hotblooded hotchpotch hotdog hotdogs hotel hotelier hoteliers hotels hotheaded hotheads hothouse hothouses hotline hotly hotness hotplate hotplates hotpot hotrod hotspot hotspots hottempered hotter hottest hotting hound hounded hounding hounds hour hourglass hourly hours house houseboat houseboats housebound housebreaker housebreakers housebreaking housebuilder housebuilders housebuilding housebuyers housed houseflies houseful household householder householders households househunting housekeeper housekeepers housekeeping housemaid housemaids houseroom houses housewife housewives housework housing housings houston hove hovel hovels hover hovercraft hovered hoverer hovering hovers how howdy however howitzer howitzers howl howled howler howlers howling howlings howls howsoever hub hubbies hubbub hubby hubcap hubcaps hubris hubristic hubs huckleberry huddle huddled huddles huddling hue hues huff huffed huffily huffing huffy hug huge hugely hugeness hugged hugging hugs huguenot huh hulk hulking hulks hull hullabaloo hulled hullo hulls hum human humane humanely humaner humanise humanised humanising humanism humanist humanistic humanists humanitarian humanitarianism humanities humanity humankind humanly humanness humanoid humanoids humans humble humbled humbleness humbler humbles humblest humbling humbly humbug humbugs humdrum humerus humid humidifier humidifiers humidity humify humiliate humiliated humiliates humiliating humiliatingly humiliation humiliations humility hummable hummed hummer humming hummingbird hummingbirds hummock hummocks hummocky humorist humorous humorously humour humoured humouring humourless humours hump humpback humped humping humps hums humus hunch hunchback hunchbacked hunched hunches hunching hundred hundredfold hundreds hundredth hundredths hundredweight hundredweights hung hungary hunger hungered hungering hungers hungrier hungriest hungrily hungry hunk hunkers hunks hunt hunted hunter huntergatherer huntergatherers hunters hunting hunts huntsman huntsmen hurdle hurdled hurdler hurdlers hurdles hurl hurled hurling hurls hurlyburly hurrah hurrahs hurray hurricane hurricanes hurried hurriedly hurries hurry hurrying hurt hurtful hurting hurtle hurtled hurtles hurtling hurts husband husbandman husbandmen husbandry husbands hush hushed hushes hushhush hushing husk husked huskier huskies huskiest huskily husks husky hussies hussy hustings hustle hustled hustler hustlers hustles hustling hut hutch hutches huts hyacinth hyacinths hyaena hyaenas hybrid hybridisation hybridised hybrids hydra hydrangea hydrangeas hydrant hydrants hydrate hydrated hydration hydraulic hydraulically hydraulics hydrazine hydride hydro hydrocarbon hydrocarbons hydrochloric hydrochloride hydrodynamic hydrodynamical hydrodynamics hydroelectric hydroelectricity hydrofluoric hydrofoil hydrofoils hydrogen hydrogenated hydrogenation hydrographer hydrographic hydrological hydrologically hydrologists hydrology hydrolysis hydromagnetic hydromechanics hydrophobia hydrophobic hydroponically hydrosphere hydrostatic hydrostatics hydrothermal hydrous hydroxide hydroxides hyena hyenas hygiene hygienic hygienically hygienist hygienists hygroscopic hymen hymens hymn hymnal hymnbook hymns hype hyperactive hyperactivity hyperbola hyperbolas hyperbole hyperbolic hyperboloid hyperboloids hypercholesterolaemia hypercube hypercubes hyperfine hyperinflation hypermarket hypermarkets hyperplane hyperplanes hypersensitive hypersensitiveness hypersensitivity hypersonic hyperspace hypersphere hypertension hypertext hypertonic hyperventilated hyperventilating hyperventilation hyphen hyphenate hyphenated hyphenates hyphenating hyphenation hyphenations hyphened hyphens hypnosis hypnotherapists hypnotherapy hypnotic hypnotically hypnotise hypnotised hypnotises hypnotising hypnotism hypnotist hypochondria hypochondriac hypochondriacal hypochondriacs hypocrisies hypocrisy hypocrite hypocrites hypocritical hypocritically hypodermic hypoglycaemia hypoglycaemic hypotension hypothalamus hypothermia hypotheses hypothesis hypothesise hypothesised hypothesiser hypothesises hypothesising hypothetical hypothetically hypoxia hyssop hysterectomy hysteresis hysteria hysteric hysterical hysterically hysterics iambic iambus iatrogenic iberia iberian ibex ibexes ibis ibises ibsen icarus ice iceage iceberg icebergs icebox icecap icecold icecream iced iceland iceman icepack icepick icepicks ices iceskate iceskating ichneumon icicle icicles icier iciest icily iciness icing icings icon iconic iconoclasm iconoclast iconoclastic iconoclasts iconographic iconographical iconography icons icosahedra icosahedral icosahedron icy id idaho idea ideal idealisation idealisations idealise idealised idealises idealising idealism idealist idealistic idealistically idealists ideality ideally ideals ideas idem identical identically identifiable identifiably identification identifications identified identifier identifiers identifies identify identifying identities identity ideograms ideographic ideographs ideological ideologically ideologies ideologist ideologists ideologue ideologues ideology ides idiocies idiocy idiolect idiom idiomatic idiomatically idioms idiopathic idiosyncrasies idiosyncrasy idiosyncratic idiosyncratically idiot idiotic idiotically idiots idle idled idleness idler idlers idles idlest idling idly idol idolaters idolatrous idolatry idolisation idolise idolised idols ids idyll idyllic idyllically if ifs igloo igloos iglu igneous ignite ignited igniter ignites igniting ignition ignoble ignobly ignominious ignominiously ignominy ignorable ignoramus ignoramuses ignorance ignorant ignorantly ignore ignored ignores ignoring iguana iguanas ileum iliad ilk ill illadvised illbehaved illconceived illdefined illegal illegalities illegality illegally illegibility illegible illegibly illegitimacy illegitimate illegitimately illequipped illfated illfavoured illhumoured illiberal illicit illicitly illimitable illinformed illinois illiquid illiteracy illiterate illiterates illmannered illness illnesses illogic illogical illogicality illogically ills illtempered illtreated illuminant illuminate illuminated illuminates illuminating illumination illuminations illumine illusion illusionist illusionists illusions illusive illusory illustrate illustrated illustrates illustrating illustration illustrations illustrative illustrator illustrators illustrious ilmenite im image imaged imagery images imaginable imaginary imagination imaginations imaginative imaginatively imagine imagined imagines imaging imagining imaginings imago imam imams imbalance imbalanced imbalances imbecile imbeciles imbecilic imbecilities imbecility imbedded imbeds imbibe imbibed imbiber imbibers imbibing imbroglio imbue imbued imitate imitated imitates imitating imitation imitations imitative imitator imitators immaculate immaculately immanence immanent immanently immaterial immature immaturely immaturity immeasurable immeasurably immediacy immediate immediately immediateness immemorial immense immensely immenseness immensities immensity immerse immersed immerses immersing immersion immigrant immigrants immigrate immigrated immigrating immigration immigrations imminence imminent imminently immiscible immobile immobilisation immobilise immobilised immobiliser immobilises immobilising immobility immoderate immoderately immodest immolate immolated immolation immoral immorality immorally immortal immortalised immortality immortally immortals immovability immovable immoveable immune immunisation immunisations immunise immunised immunises immunities immunity immunoassay immunocompromised immunodeficiency immunological immunologically immunologist immunologists immunology immunosuppression immunosuppressive immured immutability immutable immutably imp impact impacted impacting impaction impacts impair impaired impairing impairment impairments impairs impala impalas impale impaled impaler impales impaling impalpable impart imparted impartial impartiality impartially imparting imparts impassable impasse impassioned impassive impassively impassiveness impassivity impatience impatient impatiently impeach impeached impeaches impeachment impeachments impeccable impeccably impecunious impedance impede impeded impedes impediment impedimenta impediments impeding impel impelled impelling impels impend impending impenetrability impenetrable impenetrably imperative imperatively imperatives imperceptible imperceptibly imperfect imperfection imperfections imperfectly imperial imperialism imperialist imperialistic imperialists imperially imperil imperilled imperious imperiously imperiousness imperishable imperium impermanence impermanent impermeability impermeable impermissible impersonal impersonality impersonally impersonate impersonated impersonates impersonating impersonation impersonations impersonator impersonators impertinence impertinent impertinently imperturbability imperturbable imperturbably impervious impetuosity impetuous impetuously impetus impi impiety impinge impinged impingement impinges impinging impious impish impishly impishness implacable implacably implant implantation implanted implanting implants implausibility implausible implausibly implement implementable implementation implementations implemented implementer implementers implementing implements implicate implicated implicates implicating implication implications implicit implicitly implied impliedly implies implode imploded implodes imploding implore implored implores imploring imploringly implosion imply implying impolite impoliteness impolitic imponderable imponderables import importable importance important importantly importation imported importer importers importing imports importunate importunately importune importuned importunity imposable impose imposed imposes imposing imposition impositions impossibilities impossibility impossible impossibly imposter imposters impostor impostors impotence impotency impotent impotently impound impounded impounding impoverish impoverished impoverishing impoverishment impracticability impracticable impractical impracticalities impracticality impractically imprecation imprecations imprecise imprecisely impreciseness imprecision impregnable impregnably impregnate impregnated impregnating impregnation impresario impress impressed impresses impressing impression impressionable impressionism impressionist impressionistic impressionists impressions impressive impressively impressiveness imprimatur imprint imprinted imprinting imprints imprison imprisoned imprisoning imprisonment imprisonments imprisons improbabilities improbability improbable improbably impromptu improper improperly improprieties impropriety improvable improve improved improvement improvements improver improves improvidence improvident improving improvisation improvisational improvisations improvisatory improvise improvised improvises improvising imprudence imprudent imprudently imps impudence impudent impudently impugn impugnable impugned impugning impulse impulses impulsion impulsive impulsively impulsiveness impunity impure impurities impurity imputation imputations impute imputed imputing in inabilities inability inaccessibility inaccessible inaccuracies inaccuracy inaccurate inaccurately inaction inactivated inactivating inactivation inactive inactivity inadequacies inadequacy inadequate inadequately inadmissible inadvertence inadvertent inadvertently inadvisability inadvisable inadvisedly inalienable inane inanely inanimate inanities inanity inapplicability inapplicable inappropriate inappropriately inappropriateness inaptly inarticulacy inarticulate inarticulateness inasmuch inattention inattentive inattentively inaudibility inaudible inaudibly inaugural inaugurate inaugurated inaugurates inaugurating inauguration inauspicious inauspiciously inauthenticity inboard inborn inbound inbred inbreeding inbuilt inca incalculable incalculably incandescence incandescent incandescently incant incantation incantations incantatory incapability incapable incapacitate incapacitated incapacitates incapacitating incapacitation incapacity incarcerated incarcerating incarceration incarnate incarnated incarnation incarnations incas incased incautious incautiously incendiaries incendiary incense incensed incenses incensing incentive incentives inception incessant incessantly incest incests incestuous incestuousness inch inched inches inching inchoate incidence incidences incident incidental incidentally incidents incinerate incinerated incinerates incinerating incineration incinerator incinerators incipient incised incision incisions incisive incisively incisiveness incisor incisors incite incited incitement incitements inciter inciters incites inciting inclemency inclement inclination inclinations incline inclined inclines inclining include included includes including inclusion inclusions inclusive inclusively inclusiveness incognito incoherence incoherency incoherent incoherently incombustible income incomer incomers incomes incoming incommensurable incommoding incommunicable incommunicado incomparable incomparably incompatibilities incompatibility incompatible incompatibly incompetence incompetent incompetently incompetents incomplete incompletely incompleteness incomprehensibility incomprehensible incomprehensibly incomprehension incompressible inconceivable inconceivably inconclusive inconclusively incongruities incongruity incongruous incongruously inconsequential inconsequentially inconsiderable inconsiderate inconsiderately inconsiderateness inconsistencies inconsistency inconsistent inconsistently inconsolable inconsolably inconspicuous inconspicuously inconspicuousness inconstancy inconstant incontestable incontestably incontinence incontinent incontinently incontrovertible incontrovertibly inconvenience inconvenienced inconveniences inconveniencing inconvenient inconveniently incorporable incorporate incorporated incorporates incorporating incorporation incorrect incorrectly incorrectness incorrigible incorrigibly incorruptible increase increased increases increasing increasingly incredible incredibly incredulity incredulous incredulously increment incremental incrementally incrementation incremented incrementing increments incriminate incriminated incriminates incriminating incrimination incubate incubated incubating incubation incubations incubator incubators inculcate inculcated inculcating inculcation incumbency incumbent incumbents incur incurable incurably incuriously incurred incurring incurs incursion incursions indaba indebted indebtedness indecency indecent indecently indecipherable indecision indecisive indecisively indecisiveness indeclinable indecorous indeed indefatigable indefeasible indefensible indefinable indefinably indefinite indefinitely indelible indelibly indelicacy indelicate indemnified indemnify indemnities indemnity indent indentation indentations indented indenting indents indentures independence independent independently independents indepth indescribable indescribably indestructibility indestructible indeterminable indeterminacy indeterminate index indexation indexed indexer indexers indexes indexing india indian indiana indians indicant indicants indicate indicated indicates indicating indication indications indicative indicator indicators indices indict indictable indicted indicting indictment indictments indicts indifference indifferent indifferently indigenous indigestible indigestion indignant indignantly indignation indignities indignity indigo indirect indirection indirections indirectly indirectness indiscipline indiscreet indiscreetly indiscretion indiscretions indiscriminate indiscriminately indispensability indispensable indispensably indispose indisposed indisposition indisputable indisputably indissoluble indissolubly indistinct indistinctly indistinctness indistinguishable indistinguishably indite individual individualised individualism individualist individualistic individualists individuality individually individuals individuation indivisibility indivisible indivisibly indoctrinate indoctrinated indoctrinates indoctrinating indoctrination indoctrinations indoctrinator indoctrinators indole indolence indolent indolently indomitable indoor indoors indorsed indorses indrawn indubitable indubitably induce induced inducement inducements induces inducible inducing induct inductance inducted induction inductions inductive inductively inductor inductors inducts indulge indulged indulgence indulgences indulgent indulgently indulger indulges indulging induna industrial industrialisation industrialise industrialised industrialising industrialism industrialist industrialists industrially industries industrious industriously industriousness industry inebriate inebriated inebriation inedible ineffable ineffective ineffectively ineffectiveness ineffectual ineffectually ineffectualness inefficiencies inefficiency inefficient inefficiently inelastic inelegance inelegant inelegantly ineligibility ineligible ineluctable ineluctably inept ineptitude ineptly ineptness inequalities inequality inequitable inequities inequity ineradicable ineradicably inert inertia inertial inertness inescapable inescapably inessential inestimable inestimably inevitability inevitable inevitably inexact inexactitude inexactitudes inexcusable inexcusably inexhaustible inexhaustibly inexorability inexorable inexorably inexpedient inexpensive inexpensively inexperience inexperienced inexpert inexpertly inexplicable inexplicably inexpressibility inexpressible inexpressibly inextensible inextinguishable inextricable inextricably infallibility infallible infallibly infamous infamously infamy infancy infant infanta infante infanticide infantile infantry infantryman infantrymen infants infarct infarction infarctions infatuate infatuated infatuation infatuations infeasibility infeasible infect infected infecting infection infections infectious infectiously infective infects infelicities infelicitous infelicitously infelicity infer inference inferences inferential inferentially inferior inferiority inferiors infernal infernally inferno inferred inferring infers infertile infertility infest infestation infestations infested infesting infests infidel infidelities infidelity infidels infield infighting infill infilling infiltrate infiltrated infiltrates infiltrating infiltration infiltrations infiltrator infiltrators infinite infinitely infinitesimal infinitesimally infinitesimals infinities infinitive infinitives infinitude infinity infirm infirmaries infirmary infirmities infirmity infix inflame inflamed inflames inflaming inflammable inflammation inflammatory inflatable inflate inflated inflates inflating inflation inflationary inflect inflected inflecting inflection inflectional inflections inflects inflexibility inflexible inflexibly inflexion inflexions inflict inflicted inflicter inflicting infliction inflictions inflicts inflow inflowing inflows influence influenced influences influencing influential influenza influx influxes info inform informal informality informally informant informants informatics information informational informative informatively informativeness informatory informed informer informers informing informs infra infraction infractions infrared infrastructural infrastructure infrastructures infrequency infrequent infrequently infringe infringed infringement infringements infringes infringing infuriate infuriated infuriates infuriating infuriatingly infuse infused infuses infusing infusion infusions ingathered ingenious ingeniously ingenuity ingenuous ingenuously ingenuousness ingest ingested ingesting ingestion inglorious ingoing ingot ingots ingrained ingrate ingratiate ingratiated ingratiating ingratiatingly ingratitude ingredient ingredients ingress ingression ingrown inhabit inhabitable inhabitant inhabitants inhabited inhabiting inhabits inhalant inhalation inhalations inhale inhaled inhaler inhalers inhales inhaling inherent inherently inherit inheritable inheritance inheritances inherited inheriting inheritor inheritors inherits inhibit inhibited inhibiting inhibition inhibitions inhibitor inhibitors inhibitory inhibits inhomogeneities inhomogeneity inhomogeneous inhospitable inhouse inhuman inhumane inhumanely inhumanities inhumanity inhumanly inimical inimitable inimitably iniquities iniquitous iniquitously iniquity initial initialisation initialisations initialise initialised initialises initialising initialled initially initials initiate initiated initiates initiating initiation initiations initiative initiatives initiator initiators inject injectable injected injecting injection injections injector injects injoke injokes injudicious injudiciously injunction injunctions injure injured injures injuries injuring injurious injuriously injury injustice injustices ink inked inkier inkiest inking inkling inklings inkpad inkpot inkpots inks inkstand inkstands inkwell inkwells inky inlaid inland inlaw inlaws inlay inlays inlet inlets inmate inmates inmost inn innards innate innately inner innermost innervation innings innkeeper innkeepers innocence innocent innocently innocents innocuous innocuousness innovate innovated innovating innovation innovations innovative innovatively innovator innovators innovatory inns innuendo innumerable innumerably innumeracy innumerate inoculate inoculated inoculates inoculating inoculation inoculations inoffensive inoperable inoperative inopportune inordinate inordinately inorganic input inputs inputting inquest inquests inquire inquired inquirer inquirers inquires inquiries inquiring inquiringly inquiry inquisition inquisitional inquisitions inquisitive inquisitively inquisitiveness inquisitor inquisitorial inquisitorially inquisitors inquorate inroad inroads inrush ins insalubrious insane insanely insanitary insanities insanity insatiable insatiably inscribe inscribed inscribing inscription inscriptions inscrutability inscrutable inscrutably insect insecticidal insecticide insecticides insectivores insectivorous insects insecure insecurely insecurities insecurity insemination insensibility insensible insensibly insensitive insensitively insensitivity inseparable inseparably insert inserted inserting insertion insertions inserts inset insets inshore inside insideout insider insiders insides insidious insidiously insight insightful insights insignia insignificance insignificant insignificantly insincere insincerely insincerity insinuate insinuated insinuating insinuatingly insinuation insinuations insipid insist insisted insistence insistent insistently insisting insists insofar insole insolence insolent insolently insolubility insoluble insolvencies insolvency insolvent insomnia insomniac insomniacs insouciance insouciant inspect inspected inspecting inspection inspections inspector inspectorate inspectorates inspectors inspects inspiration inspirational inspirations inspire inspired inspires inspiring instabilities instability install installable installation installations installed installer installers installing installs instalment instalments instance instanced instances instancy instant instantaneous instantaneously instantiate instantiated instantiates instantiating instantiation instantiations instantly instants instated instead instep insteps instigate instigated instigates instigating instigation instigator instigators instil instillation instilled instilling instills instils instinct instinctive instinctively instincts instinctual institute instituted institutes instituting institution institutional institutionalisation institutionalise institutionalised institutionalising institutionalism institutionally institutions instruct instructed instructing instruction instructional instructions instructive instructor instructors instructs instrument instrumental instrumentalist instrumentalists instrumentality instrumentally instrumentals instrumentation instrumented instruments insubordinate insubordination insubstantial insufferable insufferably insufficiency insufficient insufficiently insulant insular insularity insulate insulated insulates insulating insulation insulator insulators insulin insult insulted insulter insulting insultingly insults insuperable insupportable insurance insurances insure insured insurer insurers insures insurgency insurgent insurgents insuring insurmountable insurmountably insurrection insurrectionary insurrections intact intaglio intake intakes intangible intangibles integer integers integrability integrable integral integrally integrals integrand integrands integrate integrated integrates integrating integration integrationist integrations integrative integrator integrators integrity intellect intellects intellectual intellectualism intellectuality intellectually intellectuals intelligence intelligences intelligent intelligently intelligentsia intelligibility intelligible intelligibly intemperance intemperate intend intended intending intends intense intensely intensification intensified intensifies intensify intensifying intensities intensity intensive intensively intent intention intentional intentionality intentionally intentioned intentions intently intentness intents inter interact interacted interacting interaction interactional interactions interactive interactively interactiveness interacts interatomic interbank interbred interbreed interbreeding intercede interceded interceding intercept intercepted intercepting interception interceptions interceptor interceptors intercepts intercession intercessions interchange interchangeability interchangeable interchangeably interchanged interchanges interchanging intercity intercollegiate intercom intercommunicate intercommunication interconnect interconnected interconnectedness interconnecting interconnection interconnections interconnects intercontinental interconversion intercountry intercourse intercut interdenominational interdepartmental interdependence interdependency interdependent interdict interdicted interdisciplinary interest interested interestedly interesting interestingly interests interface interfaced interfaces interfacing interfere interfered interference interferences interferer interferes interfering interferometer interferometers interferometric interferometry interferon intergalactic interglacial intergovernmental interim interims interior interiors interject interjected interjecting interjection interjectional interjections interjects interlace interlaced interlacing interlap interleave interleaved interleaves interleaving interlingual interlinked interlock interlocked interlocking interlocks interlocutor interlocutors interlocutory interloper interlopers interlude interludes intermarriage intermarriages intermediaries intermediary intermediate intermediates interment interments interminable interminably intermingled intermingling intermission intermissions intermittent intermittently intermix intermixed intermixing intermolecular intern internal internalisation internalise internalised internalises internalising internally internals international internationalisation internationalised internationalism internationalist internationalists internationally internationals interned internees internet interning internment internments interns internuclear interocular interoperability interoperable interpellation interpenetration interpersonal interplanetary interplay interplays interpolatable interpolate interpolated interpolates interpolating interpolation interpolations interpose interposed interposes interposing interposition interpret interpretable interpretation interpretational interpretations interpretative interpreted interpreter interpreters interpreting interpretive interpretively interprets interracial interred interregnum interrelate interrelated interrelatedness interrelation interrelations interrelationship interrelationships interrogate interrogated interrogates interrogating interrogation interrogations interrogative interrogatively interrogatives interrogator interrogators interrogatory interrupt interrupted interruptibility interrupting interruption interruptions interrupts intersect intersected intersecting intersection intersections intersects intersperse interspersed intersperses interspersing interstellar interstices interstitial interstitially intertidal intertwine intertwined intertwining interval intervals intervene intervened intervenes intervening intervention interventionism interventionist interventions interview interviewed interviewee interviewees interviewer interviewers interviewing interviews interweaving interwoven intestacy intestate intestinal intestine intestines intifada intimacies intimacy intimate intimated intimately intimates intimating intimation intimations intimidate intimidated intimidates intimidating intimidation intimidatory into intolerable intolerably intolerance intolerant intonation intonational intonations intone intoned intones intoning intoxicant intoxicants intoxicate intoxicated intoxicating intoxication intracellular intractability intractable intractably intramural intramuscular intransigence intransigent intransitive intrauterine intravenous intravenously intrepid intrepidly intricacies intricacy intricate intricately intrigue intrigued intrigues intriguing intriguingly intrinsic intrinsically intro introduce introduced introduces introducing introduction introductions introductory introspection introspective introspectively introversion introvert introverted introverts intrude intruded intruder intruders intrudes intruding intrusion intrusions intrusive intrusiveness intuited intuition intuitionist intuitions intuitive intuitively intuitiveness inuit inuits inundate inundated inundation inure inured invade invaded invader invaders invades invading invalid invalidate invalidated invalidates invalidating invalidation invalided invalidity invalids invaluable invariable invariably invariance invariant invariants invasion invasions invasive invective invectives inveigh inveighing inveigle inveigled inveigler inveiglers inveigling invent invented inventing invention inventions inventive inventively inventiveness inventor inventories inventors inventory invents inverse inversely inverses inversion inversions invert invertebrate invertebrates inverted inverter inverters invertible inverting inverts invest invested investigate investigated investigates investigating investigation investigations investigative investigator investigators investigatory investing investiture investment investments investor investors invests inveterate invidious invigilate invigilated invigilating invigilator invigilators invigorate invigorated invigorating invigoratingly invincibility invincible inviolability inviolable inviolate inviscid invisibilities invisibility invisible invisibles invisibly invitation invitations invite invited invites inviting invitingly invocation invocations invoice invoiced invoices invoicing invokable invoke invoked invoker invokers invokes invoking involuntarily involuntary involute involution involutions involve involved involvement involvements involves involving invulnerability invulnerable inward inwardly inwardness inwards iodide iodine ion ionian ionic ionisation ionise ionised ionising ionosphere ionospheric ions iota iotas iran iranian iranians iraq iraqi iraqis irascibility irascible irascibly irate ire ireland iridescence iridescent iridium iris irises irish irishman irishmen irk irked irking irks irksome irksomeness iron ironage ironed ironic ironical ironically ironies ironing ironlady ironmonger ironmongers ironmongery irons ironstone ironwork ironworks irony irradiate irradiated irradiating irradiation irrational irrationalities irrationality irrationally irreconcilable irrecoverable irrecoverably irredeemable irredeemably irreducibility irreducible irreducibly irrefutable irregular irregularities irregularity irregularly irregulars irrelevance irrelevances irrelevancy irrelevant irrelevantly irreligious irremediable irremovable irreparable irreparably irreplaceable irrepressible irrepressibly irreproachable irreproachably irresistible irresistibly irresolute irresolutely irresolution irresolvable irrespective irrespectively irresponsibility irresponsible irresponsibly irretrievable irretrievably irreverence irreverent irreverently irreversibility irreversible irreversibly irrevocable irrevocably irrigate irrigated irrigating irrigation irritability irritable irritably irritant irritants irritate irritated irritatedly irritates irritating irritatingly irritation irritations irrupted irruption is isis islam islamic island islander islanders islands isle isles islet islets isms isnt isobar isobars isogram isolate isolated isolates isolating isolation isolationism isolationist isolator isolators isomer isomeric isomers isometric isometrically isometry isomorph isomorphic isomorphism isomorphisms isoperimetrical isosceles isostatic isothermal isothermally isotonic isotope isotopes isotopic isotropic isotropically isotropy israel israeli israelis issuable issuance issue issued issuer issuers issues issuing istanbul isthmus it italian italians italic italicisation italicise italicised italics italy itch itched itches itchier itchiest itching itchy item itemise itemised itemises itemising items iterate iterated iterates iterating iteration iterations iterative iteratively iterators itinerant itinerants itineraries itinerary itll its itself ive ivies ivories ivory ivy jab jabbed jabber jabbered jabbering jabbers jabbing jabs jack jackal jackals jackass jackasses jackboot jackbooted jackboots jackdaw jackdaws jacked jacket jackets jacking jackinthebox jackpot jackpots jacks jacob jacuzzi jade jaded jadedly jadedness jades jag jagged jaggedly jaguar jaguars jahweh jail jailbird jailed jailer jailers jailing jails jakarta jalopy jam jamaica jamaican jamb jamboree jambs james jammed jamming jams jangle jangled jangling jangly janitor janitors january janus jap japan jape japes japonica jar jargon jargons jarl jarred jarring jars jasmine jaundice jaundiced jaunt jaunted jauntier jauntiest jauntily jaunting jaunts jaunty java javelin javelins jaw jawbone jawbones jawed jawing jawline jaws jay jays jaywalk jaywalker jaywalking jazz jazzed jazzier jazziest jazzy jealous jealousies jealously jealousy jeans jeep jeeps jeer jeered jeering jeeringly jeerings jeers jehad jejune jejunum jell jellied jellies jellify jelly jellyfish jemmy jennets jeopardise jeopardised jeopardises jeopardising jeopardy jerboas jeremiah jericho jerk jerked jerkier jerkiest jerkily jerkin jerking jerkings jerkins jerks jerky jersey jerseys jest jested jester jesters jesting jestingly jests jesuit jesus jet jetlagged jetplane jetpropelled jets jetsam jetsetting jetted jetties jetting jettison jettisoned jettisoning jetty jew jewel jewelled jeweller jewellers jewellery jewelry jewels jewess jewish jews jewsharp jezebel jiffy jiggle jiggling jigs jigsaw jigsaws jihad jilt jilted jilting jilts jimmy jingle jingled jingles jingling jingo jingoism jingoistic jinked jinks jinx jinxed jinxes jitter jitters jittery jiujitsu jive jived jives job jobbing jobless joblessness jobs jock jockey jockeying jockeys jocular jocularity jocularly joey jog jogged jogger joggers jogging jogs john join joined joiner joiners joinery joining joins joint jointed jointing jointly joints jointures joist joists joke joked joker jokers jokes jokey jokier jokily joking jokingly jollier jolliest jollify jollily jollity jolly jolt jolted jolting jolts jonah jonathan joseph joshua jostle jostled jostles jostling jot jots jotted jotter jotting jottings joule joules journal journalese journalism journalist journalistic journalists journalled journalling journals journey journeyed journeyer journeying journeyman journeys joust jouster jousting jousts jovial joviality jovially jovian jowl jowls joy joyed joyful joyfully joyfulness joyless joylessness joyous joyously joyousness joyride joyrider joyriders joyriding joys joystick joysticks jubilant jubilantly jubilate jubilation jubilee jubilees judaic judaism judas judder juddered juddering judders judge judged judgement judgemental judgements judges judging judgment judgmental judgments judicature judicial judicially judiciaries judiciary judicious judiciously judo jug jugged juggernaut juggernauts juggle juggled juggler jugglers juggles juggling jugs jugular juice juices juicier juiciest juiciness juicy jukebox jukeboxes julep juleps july jumble jumbled jumbles jumbo jump jumped jumper jumpers jumpier jumpiest jumpiness jumping jumps jumpstart jumpstarting jumpsuit jumpy junction junctions juncture june jungle jungles junior juniority juniors juniper junk junker junket junkie junkies junkmail junks junkyard juno junta juntas jupiter jurassic juridic juridical juries jurisdiction jurisdictional jurisdictions jurisprudence jurisprudential jurist juristic jurists juror jurors jury juryman jurymen jussive just justice justices justifiability justifiable justifiably justification justifications justificatory justified justifies justify justifying justly justness jut jute juts jutted jutting juvenile juveniles juxtapose juxtaposed juxtaposes juxtaposing juxtaposition juxtapositions kaftan kaftans kaiser kalahari kale kaleidoscope kaleidoscopic kalif kamikaze kampala kampong kangaroo kangaroos kaolin karakul karaoke karate karma karst katydid kayak kayaks kebab kebabs kedgeree keel keeled keelhaul keeling keels keen keener keenest keening keenly keenness keep keeper keepers keeping keeps keepsake keepsakes keg kegs kelp kelpers kelt kelts kelvin ken kennedy kennel kennelled kennels kent kentucky kenya kenyan kept keratin kerb kerbs kerbside kerchief kerned kernel kernels kerning kerosene kestrel kestrels ketch ketchup kettle kettleful kettles key keyboard keyboardist keyboards keyed keyhole keyholes keying keynote keynotes keypad keypads keyring keys keystone keystones keystroke keystrokes keyword keywords khaki khalif khan khans khoikhoi khoisan kibbutz kick kickback kicked kicker kicking kicks kickstart kickstarted kickstarting kickstarts kid kidded kiddie kidding kidnap kidnapped kidnapper kidnappers kidnapping kidnappings kidnaps kidney kidneys kidneyshaped kids kiev kill killed killer killers killing killings killjoy killjoys kills kiln kilns kilo kilobits kilobyte kilobytes kilohertz kilojoules kilometre kilometres kiloton kilotons kilovolt kilowatt kilowatts kilt kilted kilter kilts kimono kin kina kinase kind kinder kindergarten kindergartens kindest kindhearted kindheartedness kindle kindled kindles kindlier kindliest kindliness kindling kindly kindness kindnesses kindred kinds kinematic kinematics kinetic kinetically kinetics kinfolk king kingdom kingdoms kingfisher kingfishers kingly kingpin kings kingship kingsize kingsized kink kinked kinks kinky kinsfolk kinshasa kinship kinsman kinsmen kinswoman kiosk kiosks kipper kippers kirk kismet kiss kissed kisser kisses kissing kit kitbag kitbags kitchen kitchenette kitchens kitchenware kite kites kith kits kitsch kitted kitten kittenish kittens kitting kittiwakes kitty kiwi kiwis klaxon klaxons kleptomania kleptomaniac kleptomaniacs klick kloof knack knacker knackers knacks knapsack knapsacks knave knavery knaves knavish knead kneaded kneading kneads knee kneecap kneecaps kneed kneedeep kneel kneeled kneeler kneeling kneels knees knell knelt knesset knew knickers knife knifed knifepoint knifes knifing knight knighted knighthood knighthoods knightly knights knit knits knitted knitter knitters knitting knitwear knives knob knobbly knobs knock knocked knocker knockers knocking knockings knockout knocks knoll knolls knot knots knotted knottier knottiest knotting knotty know knowable knowhow knowing knowingly knowledge knowledgeable knowledgeably known knows knuckle knuckled knuckleduster knuckledusters knuckles knuckling koala koalas kongo kookaburra koran korea korean koreans kosher kraal kraals kraft kremlin kriegspiel krill krypton kudu kudus kungfu kuwait kwacha kwachas laager lab label labelled labelling labellings labels labia labial labials labile labium laboratories laboratory laborious laboriously laboriousness labour laboured labourer labourers labouring labourintensive labours laboursaving labs laburnum labyrinth labyrinthine labyrinths lace laced lacerate lacerated lacerating laceration lacerations laces lacework laches lachrymal lachrymose lacier lacing lacings lack lackadaisical lacked lackey lackeys lacking lacklustre lacks laconic laconically lacquer lacquered lacquers lacrosse lacs lactate lactation lacteal lactic lactose lacuna lacunae lacunas lacy lad ladder laddered ladders laddie laddies lade laden ladies lading ladle ladled ladles ladling lads lady ladybird ladybirds ladybug ladylike ladyship ladyships lag lager lagers laggard laggards lagged lagging lagoon lagoons lagos lags lagune laid lain lair laird lairds lairs laissezfaire laity lake lakes lakeside lam lama lamas lamb lambasted lambasting lambda lambent lambing lambs lambskin lambswool lame lamed lamely lameness lament lamentable lamentably lamentation lamentations lamented lamenter lamenting laments lamest lamina laminar laminate laminated laminates lamination lamp lamplight lamplighter lamplit lampoon lampooned lampoonery lampooning lampoons lamppost lampposts lamprey lampreys lamps lampshade lampshades lance lanced lancelot lancer lancers lances lancet lancets lancing land landed lander landfall landfill landform landforms landholders landholding landholdings landing landings landladies landlady landless landlines landlocked landlord landlords landman landmark landmarks landmass landmine landowner landowners landowning lands landscape landscaped landscapes landscaping landside landslide landslides landslip landslips landward lane lanes language languages languid languidly languish languished languishes languishing languor languorous languorously lank lankier lankiest lanky lanolin lantern lanterns lanyard laos lap lapdog lapdogs lapel lapels lapful lapidary lapland lapp lapped lapping laps lapse lapsed lapses lapsing laptop laptops lapwing lapwings larceny larch larches lard larder larders lards large largely largeness larger largest largish largo lark larking larks larva larvae larval laryngeal laryngitis larynx larynxes las lasagne lascivious lasciviously lasciviousness lase laser lasers lash lashed lashers lashes lashing lashings lasing lass lasses lassie lassies lassitude lasso lassoed lassoing last lasted lasting lastly lasts latch latched latches latching late latecomer latecomers lately latencies latency lateness latent later lateral lateralisation laterally laterals latest latex lath lathe lather lathered lathers lathes laths latices latin latino latitude latitudes latitudinal latrine latrines latter lattice latticed lattices latvia latvian laud laudable laudatory lauded lauders lauding lauds laugh laughable laughably laughed laugher laughing laughingly laughs laughter launch launched launcher launchers launches launching launder laundered launderette launderettes laundering laundress laundrette laundrettes laundries laundry laureate laurel laurels lava lavas lavatorial lavatories lavatory lavender lavish lavished lavishes lavishing lavishly lavishness law lawabiding lawbreaker lawbreakers lawbreaking lawful lawfully lawfulness lawless lawlessness lawmaker lawmakers lawman lawmen lawn lawnmower lawnmowers lawns laws lawsuit lawsuits lawyer lawyers lax laxative laxatives laxer laxity laxness lay layabout layabouts layby laybys layer layered layering layers laying layman laymen layoff layoffs layout layouts layperson lays lazaret lazarus laze lazed lazier laziest lazily laziness lazing lazuli lazy lazybones lea leach leached leaches leaching lead leaded leaden leader leaderless leaders leadership leaderships leadfree leading leads leaf leafed leafier leafiest leafiness leafing leafless leaflet leaflets leafy league leagues leak leakage leakages leaked leakier leakiest leakiness leaking leaks leaky lean leaned leaner leanest leaning leanings leanness leans leant leap leaped leaper leapfrog leapfrogging leaping leaps leapt leapyear learn learnable learned learnedly learner learners learning learns learnt lease leased leasehold leaseholder leaseholders leases leash leashed leashes leashing leasing least leat leather leathers leathery leave leaved leaven leavened leavening leaver leavers leaves leaving leavings lebanon lebensraum lecher lecherous lecherousness lechery lectern lector lectors lecture lectured lecturer lecturers lectures lectureship lectureships lecturing led ledge ledger ledgers ledges lee leech leeches leeching leeds leek leeks leer leered leering leeringly leers lees leeward leeway left lefthanded lefthandedly lefthandedness lefthander lefthanders lefties leftish leftist leftists leftmost leftover leftovers lefts leftward leftwards lefty leg legacies legacy legal legalese legalisation legalise legalised legalising legalism legalistic legalities legality legally legate legatee legatees legates legation legato legator legend legendary legends legerdemain legged legging leggings leggy leghorn leghorns legibility legible legibly legion legionaries legionary legionnaires legions legislate legislated legislating legislation legislative legislatively legislator legislators legislature legislatures legitimacy legitimate legitimated legitimately legitimating legitimation legitimisation legitimise legitimised legitimising legless legman legroom legs legume legumes leguminous legwork leipzig leisure leisured leisurely leisurewear leitmotif leitmotifs leitmotiv leitmotivs lemma lemmas lemming lemmings lemon lemonade lemons lemur lemurs lend lender lenders lending lends length lengthen lengthened lengthening lengthens lengthier lengthiest lengthily lengths lengthways lengthwise lengthy leniency lenient leniently lenin lens lenses lensing lent lentil lentils lento leonardo leone leopard leopards leopardskin leotard leotards leper lepers leprechaun leprechauns leprose leprosy leprous lepton leptons lesbian lesbianism lesbians lesion lesions lesotho less lessee lessees lessen lessened lessening lessens lesser lesson lessons lessor lessors lest let lethal lethality lethally lethargic lethargically lethargy lets letter letterbox letterboxes lettered letterhead letterheads lettering letterpress letters letterwriter letting lettings lettish lettuce lettuces leucine leukaemia leukemia level levelheaded levelled leveller levelling levelly levels lever leverage leveraged levered levering levers levi leviathan levied levies levitate levitated levitates levitating levitation levity levy levying lewd lewdness lexeme lexemes lexical lexically lexicographer lexicographers lexicographic lexicographical lexicographically lexicography lexicon lexicons leyden liabilities liability liable liaise liaised liaises liaising liaison liaisons liar liars libation libations libel libeled libeler libelled libeller libelling libellous libels liberal liberalisation liberalise liberalised liberalising liberalism liberality liberally liberals liberate liberated liberates liberating liberation liberationists liberator liberators liberia libero libertarian libertarianism libertarians liberties libertine libertines liberty libidinous libido librarian librarians librarianship libraries library librate librated librates libretti librettist librettists libretto libya libyan libyans lice licence licences license licensed licensee licensees licenses licensing licentiate licentious licentiousness lichee lichen lichened lichens lichi lichis lick licked lickerish licking licks licorice lid lidded lidless lido lids lie lied lieder lien liens lies lieu lieutenancy lieutenant lieutenants life lifeanddeath lifebelt lifeblood lifeboat lifeboatmen lifeboats lifeforms lifegiving lifeguard lifeguards lifeless lifelessly lifelessness lifelike lifeline lifelines lifelong liferaft liferafts lifesaving lifesize lifesized lifespan lifespans lifestyle lifestyles lifetaking lifethreatening lifetime lifetimes lifework lift lifted lifter lifters lifting liftman liftmen liftoff lifts ligament ligaments ligand ligands ligature ligatured ligatures ligaturing light lighted lighten lightened lightening lightens lighter lighters lightest lightheaded lightheadedness lighthearted lightheartedly lightheartedness lighthouse lighthouses lighting lightless lightly lightness lightning lights lightship lightweight lightweights lignite likable like likeability likeable liked likelier likeliest likelihood likely likeminded liken likened likeness likenesses likening likens likes likewise liking likings lilac lilacs lilies lilliput lilliputian lilongwe lilt lilting lily lilylivered lilywhite lima limb limber limbering limbers limbless limbo limbs lime limekiln limelight limerick limericks limes limestone limestones limeys liminal liming limit limitation limitations limited limiter limiters limiting limitless limits limo limousin limousine limousines limp limped limpet limpets limpid limping limply limpopo limps linage linchpin lincoln linden line lineage lineages lineally lineaments linear linearised linearity linearly lined linefeed lineman linemen linen linens lineout lineouts liner liners lines linesman linesmen lineup lineups linger lingered lingerer lingerie lingering lingeringly lingers lingua lingual linguist linguistic linguistically linguistics linguists liniment liniments lining linings link linkable linkage linkages linked linker linkers linking links linkup linkups linnet linnets lino linoleum linseed lint lintel lintels liny lion lioness lionesses lionise lionised lions lip lipase lipid lipids lipped lipread lipreading lips lipservice lipstick lipsticks liquefaction liquefied liquefy liqueur liqueurs liquid liquidate liquidated liquidating liquidation liquidations liquidator liquidators liquidise liquidised liquidiser liquidising liquidity liquids liquify liquor liquorice liquorish liquors lira lire lisbon lisp lisped lisping lisps lissom lissome lissomeness lissomness list listed listen listened listener listeners listening listens listeria listing listings listless listlessly listlessness lists lit litanies litany litchi literacy literal literalism literalistic literally literals literary literate literati literature literatures lithe lithely lithium lithograph lithographic lithographs lithography lithological lithologies lithology lithosphere litigant litigants litigate litigating litigation litigious litigiousness litmus litotes litre litres litter littered littering litters little littleness littler littlest littoral liturgical liturgies liturgy livable live liveable lived livelier liveliest livelihood livelihoods liveliness lively liven livened livening livens liver liveried liveries liverish livers liverworts livery lives livestock livewire livid lividly living livings lizard lizards llama llamas lls load loadable loaded loader loaders loading loadings loads loaf loafed loafer loafers loafing loafs loam loams loamy loan loanable loaned loaner loaning loans loanword loanwords loath loathe loathed loathes loathing loathsome loathsomely loathsomeness loaves lob lobbed lobbied lobbies lobbing lobby lobbying lobbyist lobbyists lobe lobed lobelia lobes lobotomies lobotomised lobotomising lobotomist lobotomy lobs lobster lobsters lobular local locale locales localisation localisations localise localised localises localising localities locality locally locals locatable locate located locates locating location locational locations locative locator locators loch lochness lochs loci lock lockable lockage locked locker lockers locket locking lockjaw lockout lockouts locks locksmith loco locomote locomotion locomotive locomotives locus locust locusts lode lodestar lodestone lodge lodged lodgement lodger lodgers lodges lodging lodgings loess loft lofted loftier loftiest loftily loftiness lofts lofty log loganberries loganberry logarithm logarithmic logarithmically logarithms logbook logbooks logged logger loggerheads loggers logging logic logical logicality logically logician logicians logics logistic logistical logistically logistics logjam logo logoff logos logs loin loincloth loins loire loiter loitered loiterer loiterers loitering loiters loll lolled lollies lolling lollipop lollipops lolly london londoner lone lonelier loneliest loneliness lonely loner loners lonesome lonesomeness long longawaited longed longer longest longevity longfaced longhand longing longingly longings longish longitude longitudes longitudinal longitudinally longlasting longlived longlost longs longstanding longsuffering longwinded longwindedness loo look lookalike lookalikes looked looker lookers looking lookingglass lookingglasses lookout lookouts looks loom loomed looming looms loon looney loony loop looped loophole loopholes looping loops loopy loose loosed loosely loosen loosened looseness loosening loosens looser looses loosest loosing loot looted looter looters looting loots lop lope loped lopes loping lopped lopper loppers lopping lopsided lopsidedly loquacious loquacity lord lording lordly lords lordship lordships lore lorelei lorries lorry lorryload lorryloads losable lose loser losers loses losing losings loss losses lost lot loth lotion lotions lots lotteries lottery lotto lotus louche loud louder loudest loudhailer loudhailers loudly loudmouthed loudness loudspeaker loudspeakers louis lounge lounged lounger loungers lounges lounging louse lousiest lousily lousy lout loutish loutishness louts louver louvers louvre louvred louvres lovable love loveable lovebirds loved loveless lovelier lovelies loveliest loveliness lovelorn lovely lovemaking lover lovers loves lovesick lovestruck loving lovingly low lower lowercase lowered lowering lowers lowest lowing lowish lowkey lowland lowlanders lowlands lowlier lowliest lowly lowlying lowness lowpitched lows lowspirited loyal loyalist loyalists loyally loyalties loyalty lozenge lozenges luanda lubber lubbers lubricant lubricants lubricate lubricated lubricates lubricating lubrication lubricious lucid lucidity lucidly lucifer luck luckier luckiest luckily luckless lucky lucrative lucre ludicrous ludicrously ludicrousness ludo lug luggage lugged lugging lugs lugubrious lugubriously luke lukewarm lull lullabies lullaby lulled lulling lulls lulu lumbago lumbar lumber lumbered lumbering lumberjack lumberjacks lumbers lumen luminal luminance luminaries luminary luminescence luminescent luminosities luminosity luminous luminously lump lumped lumpen lumpier lumpiest lumpiness lumping lumpish lumps lumpy luna lunacies lunacy lunar lunate lunatic lunatics lunch lunched luncheon luncheons lunchers lunches lunching lunchpack lunchtime lunchtimes lune lung lunge lunged lunges lungfish lungful lungfuls lunging lungs lupin lupines lupins lur lurch lurched lurchers lurches lurching lure lured lures lurex lurid luridly luring lurk lurked lurker lurkers lurking lurks lusaka luscious lusciously lush lusher lushest lushness lust lusted lustful lustfully lustier lustiest lustily lusting lustre lustreless lustrous lusts lusty lute lutes luther lux luxor luxuriance luxuriant luxuriantly luxuriate luxuriating luxuries luxurious luxuriously luxury lychee lychees lye lying lymph lymphatic lymphocyte lymphocytes lymphocytic lymphoid lymphoma lymphomas lynch lynched lynches lynching lynchpin lynx lynxes lyon lyons lyra lyre lyres lyric lyrical lyrically lyricism lyricist lyricists lyrics lyrist lysine mac macabre macaque macaques macaroni macaroon macaroons macaw macaws mace maces machete machetes machination machinations machine machined machinegun machineguns machinery machines machinist machinists machismo macho macintosh macintoshes mackerel mackintosh mackintoshes macro macrobiotic macrocosm macroeconomic macroeconomics macromolecular macromolecules macron macrophage macrophages macroscopic macroscopically mad madam madame madams madcap madden maddened maddening maddeningly maddens madder maddest made madeira mademoiselle madhouse madly madman madmen madness madras madrid madrigal madrigals madwoman maelstrom maestro mafia mafiosi mag magazine magazines magenta maggot maggots magi magic magical magically magician magicians magics magisterial magisterially magistrate magistrates magma magmas magmatic magnanimity magnanimosity magnanimous magnanimously magnate magnates magnesia magnesium magnet magnetic magnetically magnetisation magnetise magnetised magnetism magnetite magneto magnetodynamics magnetohydrodynamical magnetohydrodynamics magnetometer magnetometers magnetosphere magnetron magnets magnification magnifications magnificence magnificent magnificently magnified magnifier magnifies magnify magnifying magniloquent magnitude magnitudes magnolia magnolias magnum magnums magpie magpies mags mahatma mahogany maid maiden maidenly maidens maids maidservant maidservants mail mailable mailbox mailed mailer mailing mailings mailman mailmen mailorder mails mailshot mailshots maim maimed maiming maimings maims main mainbrace maine mainframe mainframes mainland mainline mainly mains mainsail mainspring mainstay mainstays mainstream maintain maintainability maintainable maintained maintainer maintainers maintaining maintains maintenance maisonette maisonettes maize maizes majestic majestically majesties majesty majolica major majorette majorettes majorities majority majors make makeover maker makers makes makeshift makeup makeweight making makings malachite maladaptive maladies maladjusted maladjustment maladministration maladroit malady malaise malaria malarial malathion malawi malay malayan malays malaysia malcontent malcontents maldives male malefaction malefactions malefactor malefactors maleness males malevolence malevolent malevolently malformation malformations malformed malfunction malfunctioned malfunctioning malfunctions malice malices malicious maliciously maliciousness malign malignancies malignancy malignant malignantly maligned maligners maligning malignity maligns malingerers malingering mall mallard mallards malleability malleable mallet mallets mallow malls malnourished malnourishment malnutrition malodorous malpractice malpractices malt malta malted maltese malting maltreat maltreated maltreatment malts malty malva mama mamas mamba mambas mammal mammalia mammalian mammals mammary mammoth mammoths mammy man manacle manacled manacles manage manageability manageable managed management managements manager manageress manageresses managerial managerially managers managership manages managing manatee manciple mandarin mandarins mandate mandated mandates mandating mandatory mandela mandible mandibles mandibular mandolin mandolins mandrake mandril mandrill mane maned manes maneuver manfully manganese mange manger mangers mangle mangled mangler mangles mangling mango mangrove mangroves manhandle manhandled manhandling manhole manholes manhood manhunt manhunts mania maniac maniacal maniacally maniacs manias manic manically manicdepressive manicure manicured manifest manifestation manifestations manifested manifesting manifestly manifesto manifests manifold manifolds manikin manila manipulable manipulate manipulated manipulates manipulating manipulation manipulations manipulative manipulator manipulators mankind manliest manliness manly manmade manna manned mannequin mannequins manner mannered mannerism mannerisms mannerist mannerliness mannerly manners manning manoeuvrability manoeuvrable manoeuvre manoeuvred manoeuvres manoeuvring manoeuvrings manometer manor manorial manors manpower manse manservant mansion mansions mansized manslaughter mantel mantelpiece mantelpieces mantelshelf mantids mantis mantissa mantissas mantle mantled mantles mantling mantra mantrap mantraps mantras manual manually manuals manufacture manufactured manufacturer manufacturers manufactures manufacturing manure manured manures manuring manuscript manuscripts many maoism maoist maoists maori map maple maples mappable mapped mapper mappers mapping mappings maps maputo maquettes mar mara marathon marathons marauders marauding marble marbled marbles march marched marcher marchers marches marching marchioness mare mares margarine margarines margate margin marginal marginalia marginalisation marginalise marginalised marginalises marginalising marginality marginally marginals margins maria marigold marigolds marijuana marina marinade marinas marinate marinated marine mariner mariners marines marionette marionettes marital maritime mark marked markedly marker markers market marketability marketable marketed marketeer marketeers marketer marketing marketplace markets marking markings marks marksman marksmanship marksmen markup markups marl marls marmalade marmoset marmosets marmot marmots maroon marooned marooning maroons marque marquee marquees marques marquess marquetry marquis marred marriage marriageable marriages married marries marring marrow marrows marry marrying mars marsala marsh marshal marshalled marshaller marshalling marshals marshes marshgas marshier marshiest marshiness marshland marshmallow marshmallows marshy marsupial marsupials mart marten martens martial martian martians martin martinet martingale martingales martini martins martyr martyrdom martyred martyrs martyry marvel marvelled marvelling marvellous marvellously marvels marx marxism marxist marxists mary marzipan mas mascara mascot mascots masculine masculinity maser maseru mash mashed masher mashing mask masked masking masks masochism masochist masochistic masochistically masochists mason masonic masonry masons masque masquerade masqueraded masquerades masquerading masques mass massacre massacred massacres massacring massage massaged massager massages massaging massed masses masseur masseurs masseuse masseuses massif massing massive massively massless massproduced massproducing mast mastectomy masted master masterclass mastered masterful masterfully mastering masterly mastermind masterminded masterminding masterpiece masterpieces masters mastership masterwork masterworks mastery masthead masticating mastication mastiff mastitis mastodon mastodons mastoid mastoids masts mat matador matadors match matchable matchbox matchboxes matched matcher matches matching matchless matchmaker matchmaking matchplay matchstick matchsticks mate mated mater material materialisation materialise materialised materialises materialising materialism materialist materialistic materialistically materialists materiality materially materials maternal maternally maternity mates math mathematical mathematically mathematician mathematicians mathematics maths matinee matinees mating matings matins matriarch matriarchal matriarchies matriarchy matrices matriculate matriculated matriculating matriculation matrilineal matrimonial matrimonially matrimony matrix matrixes matron matronly matrons mats matt matte matted matter mattered mattering matteroffact matters matthew matting mattress mattresses maturation maturational mature matured maturely maturer matures maturing maturity maudlin maul mauled mauler maulers mauling mauls maumau mausoleum mausoleums mauve maverick mavericks maw mawkish mawkishness maxi maxim maxima maximal maximality maximally maximisation maximise maximised maximiser maximises maximising maxims maximum may maya mayas maybe mayday maydays mayflies mayflower mayfly mayhap mayhem mayonnaise mayor mayoral mayoralty mayoress mayors maypole maze mazes mazier maziest mazurka mazy mbabane me mead meadow meadowland meadows meagre meagrely meagreness meal mealie mealies meals mealtime mealtimes mealy mean meander meandered meandering meanderings meanders meaner meanest meanie meanies meaning meaningful meaningfully meaningfulness meaningless meaninglessly meaninglessness meanings meanly meanness means meant meantime meanwhile meany measles measly measurable measurably measure measured measureless measurement measurements measures measuring meat meataxe meatball meatballs meatier meatiest meatless meatpie meats meaty mecca mechanic mechanical mechanically mechanicals mechanics mechanisable mechanisation mechanise mechanised mechanising mechanism mechanisms mechanist mechanistic mechanistically medal medallion medallions medallist medallists medals meddle meddled meddler meddlers meddles meddlesome meddling media mediaeval medial medially median medians mediate mediated mediates mediating mediation mediator mediators mediatory medic medical medically medicals medicate medicated medication medications medicinal medicine medicines medics medieval medievalist medievalists mediocre mediocrity meditate meditated meditates meditating meditation meditations meditative meditatively meditator medium mediums mediumsized medlar medley medleys medulla medusa meek meeker meekest meekly meekness meet meeter meeting meetings meets mega megabyte megabytes megahertz megajoules megalith megalithic megalomania megalomaniac megalomaniacs megaparsec megaphone megastar megaton megatons megavolt megawatt megawatts meiosis meiotic melancholia melancholic melancholies melancholy melange melanin melanoma melanomas melatonin meld melee mellifluous mellifluously mellifluousness mellow mellowed mellower mellowing mellows melodic melodically melodies melodious melodiously melodrama melodramas melodramatic melodramatically melody melon melons melt meltdown melted melter melting melts member members membership memberships membrane membranes memento memo memoir memoirs memorabilia memorable memorably memoranda memorandum memorandums memorial memorials memories memorisation memorise memorised memorises memorising memory memphis men menace menaced menaces menacing menacingly menagerie menarche mend mendacious mendacity mended mendel mendelevium mender menders mendicant mending mends menfolk menhir menhirs menial meningitis meniscus menopausal menopause menorah menstrual menstruating menstruation menswear mental mentalistic mentalities mentality mentally menthol mention mentionable mentioned mentioning mentions mentor mentors menu menus meow meows mercantile mercenaries mercenary merchandise merchandising merchant merchantability merchantable merchantman merchantmen merchants mercies merciful mercifully merciless mercilessly mercurial mercuric mercury mercy mere merely merest meretricious merge merged merger mergers merges merging meridian meridians meridional meringue meringues merino merit merited meriting meritocracy meritocratic meritocrats meritorious merits mermaid mermaids merman mermen meromorphic merrier merriest merrily merriment merry merrygoround merrygorounds merrymaking mescaline mesh meshed meshes meshing mesmeric mesmerised mesmerising mesolithic meson mesons mesosphere mesozoic mess message messages messaging messed messenger messengers messes messiah messier messiest messily messiness messing messy mestizo met metabolic metabolically metabolise metabolised metabolises metabolism metabolisms metal metalanguage metalinguistic metalled metallic metallised metallurgical metallurgist metallurgy metals metalwork metalworking metamorphic metamorphism metamorphose metamorphosed metamorphoses metamorphosis metaphor metaphoric metaphorical metaphorically metaphors metaphysical metaphysically metaphysics metastability metastable metastases metastasis metastatic metatarsal meted metempsychosis meteor meteoric meteorite meteorites meteoritic meteorological meteorologist meteorologists meteorology meteors meter metered metering meters methadone methane methanol methionine method methodical methodically methodological methodologically methodologies methodology methods methyl methylated methylene meticulous meticulously metier metonymic metonymy metre metres metric metrical metrically metrication metrics metro metronome metronomes metronomic metropolis metropolises metropolitan mettle mew mewing mews mexican mexicans mexico mezzanine mezzosoprano miami miasma mica mice micelles michigan micro microanalyses microbe microbes microbial microbic microbiological microbiologist microbiologists microbiology microchip microchips microcode microcomputer microcomputers microcosm microcosmic microdensitometer microdot microelectronic microelectronics microfarad microfiche microfilm microfilming microgrammes micrograms micrograph micrographs microgravity microhydrodynamics microlight micrometer micrometers micrometres micron microns microorganism microorganisms microphone microphones microprocessor microprocessors microprogram microscope microscopes microscopic microscopically microscopist microscopy microsecond microseconds microsurgery microwave microwaveable microwaved microwaves micturition mid midafternoon midair midas midday middays midden middle middleage middleaged middleclass middleman middlemen middleoftheroad middles middlesized middleweight middling midevening midfield midfielder midfielders midflight midge midges midget midgets midi midland midlands midlife midline midmorning midmost midnight midnights midribs midriff midship midshipman midships midst midstream midsummer midway midweek midwicket midwife midwifery midwinter midwives mien might mightier mightiest mightily mights mighty migraine migraines migrant migrants migrate migrated migrates migrating migration migrations migratory mike mikes milady milan mild milder mildest mildew mildewed mildews mildewy mildly mildmannered mildness mile mileage mileages milepost mileposts miler miles milestone milestones milieu milieus milieux militancy militant militantly militants militarily militarisation militarised militarism militarist militaristic military militate militated militates militating militia militiaman militiamen militias milk milked milker milkers milkier milkiest milking milkmaid milkmaids milkman milkmen milks milkshake milkshakes milky milkyway mill milled millenarian millenarianism millennia millennial millennium miller millers millet millibars milligram milligrams millilitres millimetre millimetres milliner milliners millinery milling million millionaire millionaires millions millionth millionths millipede millipedes millisecond milliseconds millpond mills millstone millstones milord milt mime mimed mimeographed mimes mimetic mimic mimicked mimicker mimicking mimicry mimics miming mimosa minaret minarets mince minced mincemeat mincer mincers minces mincing mind mindboggling mindbogglingly minded mindedness minder minders mindful minding mindless mindlessly mindlessness mindreader minds mindset mine mined minedetector minefield minefields miner mineral mineralisation mineralised mineralogical mineralogy minerals miners mines mineshaft minestrone minesweeper minesweepers mineworkers mingle mingled mingles mingling mini miniature miniatures miniaturisation miniaturise miniaturised miniaturises miniaturising miniaturist minibar minibus minibuses minicab minicomputer minicomputers minify minim minima minimal minimalism minimalist minimalistic minimalists minimality minimally minimisation minimise minimised minimiser minimises minimising minimum mining minings minion minions miniskirt minister ministered ministerial ministerially ministering ministers ministration ministrations ministries ministry mink minke minks minnow minnows minor minorities minority minors minster minstrel minstrels mint minted mintier mintiest minting mints minty minuet minuets minus minuscule minuses minute minuted minutely minuteness minutes minutest minutiae minx minxes miosis miracle miracles miraculous miraculously miraculousness mirage mirages mire mired mires mirror mirrored mirroring mirrors mirth mirthful mirthless mirthlessly misadventure misaligned misalignment misanalysed misanthrope misanthropes misanthropic misanthropists misanthropy misapplication misapply misapprehension misapprehensions misappropriated misappropriation misbegotten misbehave misbehaved misbehaves misbehaving misbehaviour miscalculate miscalculated miscalculation miscalculations miscarriage miscarriages miscarried miscarry miscarrying miscast miscasting miscegenation miscellanea miscellaneous miscellanies miscellany mischance mischief mischiefmakers mischiefmaking mischievous mischievously miscible misclassified miscomprehended misconceived misconception misconceptions misconduct misconfiguration misconstrued miscopying miscount miscounted miscounting miscreant miscreants miscue miscues misdate misdeal misdealing misdeed misdeeds misdemeanour misdemeanours misdiagnosis misdirect misdirected misdirecting misdirection misdirections misdoing miser miserable miserably miseries miserliness miserly misers misery misfield misfiled misfire misfired misfires misfit misfits misfortune misfortunes misgive misgiving misgivings misgovernment misguide misguided misguidedly mishandle mishandled mishandles mishandling mishap mishaps mishear misheard mishearing mishears mishitting misidentification misinform misinformation misinformed misinterpret misinterpretation misinterpretations misinterpreted misinterpreting misinterprets misjudge misjudged misjudgement misjudgements misjudging misjudgment mislabelled mislaid mislay mislead misleading misleadingly misleads misled mismanage mismanaged mismanagement mismatch mismatched mismatches mismatching misname misnamed misnomer misnomers misogynist misogynistic misogynists misogyny misplace misplaced misplacement misplaces misplacing mispositioned misprint misprinted misprinting misprints mispronounced mispronouncing mispronunciation mispronunciations misquotation misquote misquoted misquotes misquoting misread misreading misremember misremembered misremembering misrepresent misrepresentation misrepresentations misrepresented misrepresenting misrepresents misrule miss missal missals missed misses misshapen missile missiles missing mission missionaries missionary missions missive missives missouri misspell misspelled misspelling misspellings misspells misspelt misspend misspent misstatement missteps missus missuses missy mist mistake mistaken mistakenly mistakes mistaking misted mister misters mistier mistiest mistily mistime mistimed mistiness misting mistletoe mistook mistranslated mistranslates mistranslating mistranslation mistranslations mistreat mistreated mistreating mistreatment mistress mistresses mistrust mistrusted mistrustful mistrustfully mistrusting mistrusts mists misty mistype mistyped mistypes mistyping mistypings misunderstand misunderstanding misunderstandings misunderstands misunderstood misuse misused misuser misuses misusing mite mites mitigate mitigated mitigates mitigating mitigation mitigatory mitochondria mitochondrial mitosis mitre mitred mitres mitt mitten mittens mitts mix mixable mixed mixer mixers mixes mixing mixture mixtures mixup mixups mnemonic mnemonically mnemonics moan moaned moaner moaners moaning moans moas moat moated moats mob mobbed mobbing mobbish mobile mobiles mobilisable mobilisation mobilise mobilised mobilises mobilising mobilities mobility mobs mobster mobsters moccasin moccasins mock mocked mocker mockeries mockers mockery mocking mockingbird mockingly mocks mockup mockups mod modal modalities modality mode model modelled modeller modellers modelling models modem modems moderate moderated moderately moderates moderating moderation moderations moderator moderators modern moderner modernisation modernisations modernise modernised modernising modernism modernist modernistic modernists modernity modes modest modestly modesty modicum modifiable modification modifications modified modifier modifiers modifies modify modifying modish modishly modular modularisation modularise modularised modularising modularity modulate modulated modulates modulating modulation modulations modulator module modules moduli modulus mogul moguls mohair mohairs moiety moist moisten moistened moistening moistens moister moistness moisture moisturise moisturiser moisturisers moisturising molar molarities molarity molars molasses mold molds moldy mole molecular molecule molecules molehill molehills moles moleskin molest molestation molestations molested molester molesters molesting molests mollified mollifies mollify mollusc molluscan molluscs molten molts molybdenum mom moment momentarily momentary momentous moments momentum moms monaco monadic monalisa monarch monarchic monarchical monarchies monarchist monarchists monarchs monarchy monasteries monastery monastic monasticism monaural monday mondays monetarism monetarist monetarists monetary money moneyed moneylender moneylenders moneyless moneys monger mongers mongol mongols mongoose mongrel mongrels monies monition monitor monitored monitoring monitors monk monkey monkeyed monkeying monkeys monkfish monkish monks mono monochromatic monochrome monocle monocled monoclonal monocular monoculture monocytes monogamous monogamously monogamy monogram monogrammed monograph monographic monographs monolayer monolayers monolingual monolith monolithic monoliths monologue monologues monomania monomer monomeric monomers monomial monomials monomolecular monophonic monophthongs monoplane monopole monopoles monopolies monopolisation monopolise monopolised monopolises monopolising monopolist monopolistic monopolists monopoly monorail monostable monosyllabic monosyllable monosyllables monotheism monotheist monotheistic monotheists monotone monotonic monotonically monotonicity monotonous monotonously monotony monoxide monroe monsieur monsoon monsoons monster monsters monstrosities monstrosity monstrous monstrously montage montages month monthlies monthly months montreal monument monumental monumentally monuments moo mood moodiest moodily moodiness moods moody mooed mooing moon moonbeam moonbeams mooning moonless moonlight moonlighting moonlit moonrise moons moonshine moonshot moonshots moonstones moor moored moorhen moorhens mooring moorings moorland moorlands moors moos moose moot mooted mop mope moped mopeds mopes moping mopped mopping mops moraine moraines moral morale morales moralise moralised moralising moralism moralist moralistic moralists moralities morality morally morals morass morasses moratorium moray morays morbid morbidity morbidly mordant more moreover mores morgue moribund moribundity moribundly mormon mormons morn morning mornings morns moroccan morocco moron moronic morons morose morosely moroseness morph morpheme morphemes morpheus morphia morphine morphism morphisms morphogenesis morphogenetic morphological morphologically morphologies morphology morrow morse morsel morsels mort mortal mortalities mortality mortally mortals mortar mortars mortgage mortgageable mortgaged mortgagee mortgagees mortgages mortgaging mortgagor mortice mortices mortification mortified mortify mortifying mortise mortises mortuary mosaic mosaics moscow moses mosque mosques mosquito moss mosses mossier mossiest mossy most mostly motel motels motes motet motets moth mothball mothballed mothballs motheaten mother motherboard motherboards mothered motherhood mothering motherinlaw motherland motherless motherly motherofpearl mothers mothersinlaw motherstobe moths motif motifs motile motility motion motional motioned motioning motionless motionlessly motions motivate motivated motivates motivating motivation motivational motivations motivator motivators motive motiveless motives motley motlier motliest motocross motor motorbike motorbikes motorcade motorcar motorcars motorcycle motorcycles motorcycling motorcyclist motorcyclists motored motoring motorised motorist motorists motors motorway motorways mottled motto mould moulded moulder mouldering moulders mouldier mouldiest moulding mouldings moulds mouldy moult moulted moulting moults mound mounded mounds mount mountable mountain mountaineer mountaineering mountaineers mountainous mountains mountainside mountainsides mounted mountie mounties mounting mountings mounts mourn mourned mourner mourners mournful mournfully mournfulness mourning mourns mouse mouselike mousetrap mousetraps mousey moussaka mousse mousses moustache moustached moustaches mousy mouth mouthed mouthful mouthfuls mouthing mouthorgan mouthparts mouthpiece mouthpieces mouths mouthtomouth mouthwash mouthwatering movable move moveable moved movement movements mover movers moves movie movies moving movingly mow mowed mower mowers mowing mown mows mozart mr mrs ms mu much muchness muck mucked mucking mucks mucky mucosa mucous mucus mud muddied muddier muddies muddiest muddle muddled muddles muddling muddy muddying mudflats mudflow mudflows mudguard mudguards mudlarks muds muesli muff muffed muffin muffins muffle muffled muffler mufflers muffling muffs mufti mug mugged mugger muggers muggier mugging muggings muggy mugs mugshots mulberries mulberry mulch mulches mulching mule mules mull mullah mullahs mulled mullet mulling mullioned mullions multichannel multicolour multicoloured multicultural multiculturalism multidimensional multifarious multiform multifunction multifunctional multilateral multilateralism multilayer multilevel multilingual multimedia multimeter multimillion multinational multinationals multiphase multiple multiples multiplex multiplexed multiplexer multiplexers multiplexes multiplexing multiplexor multiplexors multiplication multiplications multiplicative multiplicities multiplicity multiplied multiplier multipliers multiplies multiply multiplying multiprocessing multiprocessor multiprocessors multiprogramming multiracial multitude multitudes mum mumble mumbled mumbler mumbles mumbling mumblings mumbojumbo mummies mummification mummified mummify mummy mumps mums munch munched muncher munchers munches munching mundane mundanely munich municipal municipalities municipality munificence munificent munificently munition munitions muons mural murals murder murdered murderer murderers murderess murdering murderous murderously murders murk murkier murkiest murkiness murky murmur murmured murmurer murmuring murmurings murmurs murray muscadel muscat muscle muscled muscles muscling muscular muscularity musculature musculoskeletal muse mused muses museum museums mush mushes mushroom mushroomed mushrooming mushrooms mushy music musical musicality musically musicals musician musicians musicianship musicologist musicologists musicology musing musingly musings musk musket musketeer musketeers muskets muskier muskiest musks musky muslim muslims muslin mussel mussels must mustache mustang mustangs mustard muster mustered mustering musters mustier mustiest mustily mustiness musts musty mutability mutable mutagens mutant mutants mutate mutated mutates mutating mutation mutational mutations mute muted mutely muteness mutes mutilate mutilated mutilates mutilating mutilation mutilations mutineer mutineers muting mutinied mutinies mutinous mutinously mutiny mutt mutter muttered mutterer mutterers muttering mutterings mutters mutton muttons mutts mutual mutuality mutually muzak muzzle muzzled muzzles muzzling my myalgic myelin myna mynahs myocardial myope myopia myopic myopically myriad myriads myrrh myself mysteries mysterious mysteriously mystery mystic mystical mystically mysticism mystics mystification mystified mystifies mystify mystifying mystique myth mythic mythical mythological mythologies mythologised mythology myths myxomatosis nab nabbed nabs nadir nag nagasaki nagged nagger nagging nags naiad naiads nail nailbiting nailed nailing nails nairobi naive naively naivete naivety naked nakedly nakedness name nameable namecalling named namedropping nameless namely nameplate nameplates names namesake namesakes namibia namibian naming namings nannies nanny nanometre nanometres nanosecond nanoseconds nanotechnology naomi nap napalm nape naphtha napkin napkins naples napoleon napped nappies napping nappy naps narcissism narcissistic narcoleptic narcosis narcotic narcotics narrate narrated narrates narrating narration narrations narrative narratives narratology narrator narrators narrow narrowed narrower narrowest narrowing narrowly narrowminded narrowmindedness narrowness narrows narwhal nasal nasalised nasally nascent nastier nastiest nastily nastiness nasturtium nasturtiums nasty natal nation national nationalisation nationalisations nationalise nationalised nationalising nationalism nationalist nationalistic nationalists nationalities nationality nationally nationals nationhood nations nationwide native natives nativity nato nattering natural naturalisation naturalise naturalised naturalism naturalist naturalistic naturalists naturally naturalness nature natures naturist naturists naught naughtiest naughtily naughtiness naughts naughty nausea nauseate nauseated nauseates nauseating nauseatingly nauseous nauseousness nautical nautili nautilus naval nave navel navels navies navigable navigate navigated navigating navigation navigational navigator navigators navvies navvy navy nay nazi naziism nazis nazism ndebele ne near nearby neared nearer nearest nearing nearly nearness nears nearside nearsighted neat neaten neatening neatens neater neatest neatly neatness nebula nebulae nebular nebulas nebulosity nebulous nebulously nebulousness necessaries necessarily necessary necessitate necessitated necessitates necessitating necessities necessity neck neckband necked necking necklace necklaces neckline necklines necks necktie necromancer necromancers necromancy necromantic necrophilia necrophiliac necrophiliacs necropolis necropsy necrosis necrotic nectar nectarines nectars nee need needed needful needier neediest neediness needing needle needlecraft needled needles needless needlessly needlework needling needs needy negate negated negates negating negation negations negative negatively negativeness negatives negativism negativity negev neglect neglected neglectful neglecting neglects negligee negligees negligence negligent negligently negligibility negligible negligibly negotiable negotiate negotiated negotiates negotiating negotiation negotiations negotiator negotiators negroid neigh neighbour neighbourhood neighbourhoods neighbouring neighbourliness neighbourly neighbours neighed neighing neither nematode nematodes nemesis neolithic neologism neologisms neon neonatal neonate neonates neophyte neophytes neoplasm neoplasms neoprene nepal nephew nephews nephritis nepotism neptune neptunium nerd nerds nerve nerveless nervelessness nerves nervous nervously nervousness nervy nest nestable nested nestegg nesting nestle nestled nestles nestling nests net netball nether nethermost nets nett netted netting nettle nettled nettles netts network networked networking networks neural neuralgia neurobiology neurological neurologically neurologist neurologists neurology neuron neuronal neurone neurones neurons neurophysiology neuroscience neuroscientists neuroses neurosis neurosurgeon neurosurgeons neurosurgery neurotic neurotically neurotics neurotransmitter neurotransmitters neuter neutered neutering neuters neutral neutralisation neutralise neutralised neutraliser neutralises neutralising neutralism neutralist neutrality neutrally neutrals neutrino neutron neutrons never neverending nevertheless new newborn newcomer newcomers newer newest newfangled newfound newish newlook newly newlywed newlyweds newness news newsagent newsagents newsboy newscast newscasters newsflash newsflashes newsletter newsletters newsman newsmen newspaper newspapermen newspapers newsprint newsreader newsreaders newsreel newsreels newsroom newsstand newsstands newsworthy newsy newt newton newts next ngoing nguni ngunis niagara nib nibble nibbled nibbler nibblers nibbles nibbling nibs nice nicely niceness nicer nicest niceties nicety niche niches nick nicked nickel nicking nickname nicknamed nicknames nicks nicotine niece nieces niftily nifty niger nigeria niggardly niggle niggled niggles niggling nigh night nightcap nightcaps nightclothes nightclub nightclubs nightdress nightdresses nightfall nightgown nightie nighties nightingale nightingales nightlife nightly nightmare nightmares nightmarish nights nightwatchman nightwear nihilism nihilist nihilistic nil nile nils nimble nimbleness nimbly nimbus nincompoop nine ninefold nines nineteen nineteenth nineties ninetieth ninety nineveh ninny ninth ninths nip nipped nipper nipping nipple nipples nippon nips nirvana nit nitpicking nitrate nitrates nitric nitrogen nitrogenous nitroglycerine nitrous nits nitwit nixon no noah nobility noble nobleman noblemen nobleness nobler nobles noblest nobly nobodies nobody noctuids nocturnal nocturnally nocturne nocturnes nod nodal nodded nodding noddle noddy node nodes nods nodular nodule noduled nodules noel noggin nogging nohow noise noiseless noiselessly noises noisier noisiest noisily noisiness noisome noisy nomad nomadic nomads nomenclature nomenclatures nominal nominally nominate nominated nominates nominating nomination nominations nominative nominator nominee nominees non nonbeliever nonbelievers nonchalance nonchalant nonchalantly nonconformist nonconformists nonconformity nondrinkers none nonentities nonentity nonessential nonessentials nonetheless nonevent nonexistence nonexistent nonfunctional noninterference nonintervention nonparticipation nonpayment nonplussed nonsense nonsenses nonsensical nonsmoker nonsmokers nonsmoking nonviolence nonviolent noodle noodles nook nooks noon noonday noons noontide noose noosed nooses nor noradrenalin noradrenaline nordic norm normal normalcy normalisable normalisation normalisations normalise normalised normaliser normalisers normalises normalising normality normally normals norman normandy normans normative normed norms norsemen north northbound northerly northern northerner northerners northernmost northmen northward northwards norway nose nosed nosedive noses nosey nosier nosiest nosily nosiness nosing nostalgia nostalgic nostalgically nostril nostrils nostrum nosy not notable notables notably notaries notary notation notational notationally notations notch notched notches notching note notebook notebooks noted notepad notepads notepaper notes noteworthy nothing nothingness nothings notice noticeable noticeably noticeboard noticeboards noticed notices noticing notifiable notification notifications notified notifies notify notifying noting notion notional notionally notions notoriety notorious notoriously notwithstanding nougat nougats nought noughts noun nounal nouns nourish nourished nourishes nourishing nourishment novel novelette novelist novelistic novelists novelle novels novelties novelty november novice novices now nowadays nowhere noxious noxiously noxiousness nozzle nozzles nu nuance nuances nuclear nuclei nucleic nucleus nude nudeness nudes nudge nudged nudges nudging nudism nudist nudists nudities nudity nugget nuggets nuisance nuisances nuke null nullification nullified nullifies nullify nullifying nullity nulls numb numbed number numbered numbering numberings numberless numberplate numbers numbing numbingly numbly numbness numbs numbskull numeracy numeral numerals numerate numerator numerators numeric numerical numerically numerological numerologist numerologists numerology numerous numismatic numismatics numskull nun nunneries nunnery nuns nuptial nuptials nurse nursed nursemaid nursemaids nurseries nursery nurseryman nurserymen nurses nursing nurture nurtured nurtures nurturing nut nutation nutcracker nutcrackers nutmeg nutmegs nutrient nutrients nutriment nutrition nutritional nutritionally nutritionist nutritionists nutritious nutritive nuts nutshell nuttier nutty nuzzle nuzzled nuzzles nuzzling nyala nylon nylons nymph nympholepsy nymphomania nymphomaniac nymphs oaf oafish oafs oak oaken oaks oakum oar oars oarsman oarsmen oases oasis oast oat oatcakes oath oaths oatmeal oats obduracy obdurate obdurately obedience obedient obediently obeisance obelisk obelisks obese obesity obey obeyed obeying obeys obfuscate obfuscated obfuscates obfuscation obfuscatory obituaries obituary object objected objectified objecting objection objectionable objectionableness objectionably objections objective objectively objectives objectivity objectless objector objectors objects oblate obligate obligated obligation obligations obligatorily obligatory oblige obliged obliges obliging obligingly oblique obliqued obliquely obliqueness obliquity obliterate obliterated obliterates obliterating obliteration oblivion oblivious obliviousness oblong oblongs obloquy obnoxious obnoxiously obnoxiousness oboe oboes oboist obscene obscenely obscenities obscenity obscurantism obscurantist obscuration obscure obscured obscurely obscureness obscurer obscures obscurest obscuring obscurities obscurity obsequious obsequiously obsequiousness observability observable observables observably observance observances observant observation observational observationally observations observatories observatory observe observed observer observers observes observing obsess obsessed obsesses obsessing obsession obsessional obsessions obsessive obsessively obsessiveness obsidian obsolescence obsolescent obsolete obstacle obstacles obstetric obstetrician obstetricians obstetrics obstinacy obstinate obstinately obstreperous obstruct obstructed obstructing obstruction obstructionism obstructions obstructive obstructively obstructiveness obstructs obtain obtainable obtained obtaining obtains obtrude obtruded obtruding obtrusive obtrusiveness obtuse obtusely obtuseness obverse obviate obviated obviates obviating obvious obviously obviousness occasion occasional occasionally occasioned occasioning occasions occident occidental occipital occluded occludes occlusion occult occultism occults occupancies occupancy occupant occupants occupation occupational occupationally occupations occupied occupier occupiers occupies occupy occupying occur occurred occurrence occurrences occurring occurs ocean oceanic oceanographer oceanographers oceanographic oceanography oceans ocelot ocelots ochre ochres octagon octagonal octagons octahedral octahedron octal octane octanes octant octave octaves octavo octet octets october octogenarian octogenarians octopus octopuses ocular oculist odd odder oddest oddities oddity oddjob oddly oddment oddments oddness odds ode odes odin odious odiously odiousness odium odiums odometer odoriferous odorous odour odourless odours odyssey oedema oedipus oesophagus oestrogen oestrogens oestrus oeuvre oeuvres of off offal offbeat offcut offcuts offence offences offend offended offender offenders offending offends offensive offensively offensiveness offensives offer offered offering offerings offers offertory offhand office officer officers officership officerships offices official officialdom officially officialness officials officiate officiated officiating officious officiously officiousness offprint offset offshoot offshore oft often ogle ogled ogling ogre ogres ogrish oh ohio ohm ohmic ohms oil oilcloth oiled oiler oilers oilfield oilfields oilier oiliest oiliness oiling oilman oilmen oilrig oils oily oink oinked oinks ointment ointments ok okapi okapis okay okayed okays oklahoma old oldage olden older oldest oldfashioned oldie oldish oldmaids oldtimer oldtimers ole oleander oleanders olfactory olive oliveoil oliver olives olm olms olympia olympiad olympian olympic olympics olympus ombudsman ombudsmen omega omelette omelettes omen omens ominous ominously omission omissions omit omits omitted omitting omnibus omnibuses omnidirectional omnipotence omnipotent omnipresence omnipresent omniscience omniscient omnivore omnivores omnivorous on onager onagers once one oneness oner onerous ones oneself onesided onesidedly onesidedness ongoing onion onions onlooker onlookers onlooking only onlybegotten onset onshore onslaught onslaughts ontario onto ontogeny ontological ontologically ontology onus onuses onward onwards onyx onyxes oocytes oodles ooh oolitic oology oompah oops ooze oozed oozes oozing oozy opacity opal opalescent opals opaque open opened opener openers openhanded openhandedness openheart openhearted opening openings openly openminded openmindedness openness opens opera operable operand operands operas operate operated operates operatic operating operation operational operationally operations operative operatives operator operators operculum operetta operettas ophthalmic ophthalmics ophthalmologist ophthalmologists ophthalmology opiate opiates opine opined opines opining opinion opinionated opinions opioid opioids opium opossum opponent opponents opportune opportunely opportunism opportunist opportunistic opportunistically opportunists opportunities opportunity oppose opposed opposes opposing opposite oppositely opposites opposition oppositional oppositions oppress oppressed oppresses oppressing oppression oppressions oppressive oppressively oppressiveness oppressor oppressors opprobrious opprobrium opt opted optic optical optically optician opticians optics optima optimal optimality optimally optimisation optimisations optimise optimised optimiser optimisers optimises optimising optimism optimist optimistic optimistically optimists optimum opting option optional optionality optionally options optoelectronic opts opulence opulent opus opuses or oracle oracles oracular oral orally orang orange oranges orangs orangutan orangutans orate orated orates orating oration orations orator oratorical oratorio orators oratory orb orbit orbital orbitals orbited orbiter orbiting orbits orbs orca orchard orchards orchestra orchestral orchestras orchestrate orchestrated orchestrates orchestrating orchestration orchestrations orchestrator orchid orchids ordain ordained ordaining ordains ordeal ordeals order ordered ordering orderings orderless orderlies orderliness orderly orders ordinal ordinals ordinance ordinances ordinands ordinarily ordinariness ordinary ordinate ordinates ordination ordinations ordnance ordure ore ores organ organelles organic organically organics organisable organisation organisational organisationally organisations organise organised organiser organisers organises organising organism organisms organist organists organs organza orgies orgy orient orientable oriental orientalism orientals orientate orientated orientates orientation orientations oriented orienteering orienting orifice orifices origami origin original originality originally originals originate originated originates originating origination originator originators origins orimulsion ornament ornamental ornamentation ornamented ornamenting ornaments ornate ornately ornithological ornithologist ornithologists ornithology orphan orphanage orphanages orphaned orphans orpheus orthodontist orthodox orthodoxies orthodoxy orthogonal orthogonality orthogonally orthographic orthographical orthographically orthography orthonormal orthopaedic orthopaedics orthorhombic oryxes oscar oscars oscillate oscillated oscillates oscillating oscillation oscillations oscillator oscillators oscillatory oscilloscope oscilloscopes osiris oslo osmium osmosis osmotic osprey ospreys ossification ossified ostensible ostensibly ostentation ostentatious ostentatiously osteoarthritis osteopath osteopaths osteopathy osteoporosis ostler ostlers ostracise ostracised ostracism ostrich ostriches other otherness others otherwise otter otters ottoman ouch ought ounce ounces our ours ourselves oust ousted ouster ousting ousts out outage outages outback outbid outbids outboard outbound outbreak outbreaks outbred outbuilding outbuildings outburst outbursts outcall outcast outcasts outclassed outcome outcomes outcries outcrop outcrops outcry outdated outdid outdo outdoes outdoing outdone outdoor outdoors outer outermost outface outfall outfalls outfield outfit outfits outfitters outflank outflanked outflow outflows outfox outfoxed outfoxes outgo outgoing outgoings outgrew outgrow outgrowing outgrown outgrowth outgrowths outguess outhouse outhouses outing outings outlandish outlast outlasted outlasts outlaw outlawed outlawing outlawry outlaws outlay outlays outlet outlets outlier outliers outline outlined outlines outlining outlive outlived outlives outliving outlook outlooks outlying outmanoeuvre outmanoeuvred outmoded outmost outnumber outnumbered outnumbering outnumbers outpace outpaced outpacing outpatient outpatients outperform outperformed outperforming outperforms outplacement outplay outplayed outpointed outpointing outpost outposts outpouring outpourings output outputs outputting outrage outraged outrageous outrageously outrages outraging outran outrank outreach outride outrider outriders outrigger outright outrun outruns outs outsell outset outsets outshine outshines outshining outshone outside outsider outsiders outsides outsize outskirts outsmart outsold outsourcing outspan outspoken outspokenly outspokenness outspread outstanding outstandingly outstation outstations outstay outstayed outstep outstretched outstrip outstripped outstripping outstrips outvoted outward outwardly outwards outweigh outweighed outweighing outweighs outwit outwith outwits outwitted outwitting outwork outworking ova oval ovals ovarian ovaries ovary ovate ovation ovations oven ovens over overact overacted overacting overactive overacts overall overallocation overalls overambitious overanxious overate overbearing overboard overburdened overcame overcapacity overcast overcharge overcharged overcharging overcoat overcoats overcome overcomes overcoming overcommitment overcommitments overcompensate overcomplexity overcomplicated overconfident overcook overcooked overcrowd overcrowded overcrowding overdetermined overdid overdo overdoes overdoing overdone overdose overdosed overdoses overdosing overdraft overdrafts overdramatic overdraw overdrawn overdressed overdrive overdubbing overdue overeat overeating overeats overemotional overemphasis overemphasise overemphasised overenthusiastic overestimate overestimated overestimates overestimating overestimation overexposed overexposure overextended overfamiliarity overfed overfeed overfeeding overfill overfishing overflow overflowed overflowing overflown overflows overfly overflying overfull overgeneralised overgeneralising overgrazing overground overgrown overgrowth overhand overhang overhanging overhangs overhasty overhaul overhauled overhauling overhauls overhead overheads overhear overheard overhearing overhears overheat overheated overheating overhung overincredulous overindulgence overindulgent overinflated overjoyed overkill overladen overlaid overlain overland overlap overlapped overlapping overlaps overlay overlaying overlays overleaf overlie overlies overload overloaded overloading overloads overlong overlook overlooked overlooking overlooks overlord overlords overly overlying overmanning overmantel overmatching overmuch overnight overoptimistic overpaid overpass overpay overpayment overplay overplayed overplaying overpopulated overpopulation overpopulous overpower overpowered overpowering overpoweringly overpowers overpressure overpriced overprint overprinted overprinting overprints overproduced overproduction overqualified overran overrate overrated overreach overreached overreaching overreact overreacted overreacting overreaction overreacts overrepresented overridden override overrides overriding overripe overrode overrule overruled overruling overrun overrunning overruns overs oversampled oversampling oversaw overseas oversee overseeing overseen overseer overseers oversees oversensitive oversensitivity oversexed overshadow overshadowed overshadowing overshadows overshoot overshooting overshoots overshot oversight oversights oversimplification oversimplifications oversimplified oversimplifies oversimplify oversimplifying oversize oversized oversleep overslept overspend overspending overspent overspill overstaffed overstate overstated overstatement overstates overstating overstep overstepped overstepping oversteps overstocked overstocking overstress overstressed overstretch overstretched overstrung overstuffed oversubscribed oversupply overt overtake overtaken overtaker overtakers overtakes overtaking overtax overthetop overthrew overthrow overthrowing overthrown overthrows overtightened overtime overtly overtness overtone overtones overtook overtops overture overtures overturn overturned overturning overturns overuse overused overuses overvalue overvalued overview overviews overweening overweight overwhelm overwhelmed overwhelming overwhelmingly overwhelms overwinter overwintered overwintering overwork overworked overworking overwrite overwrites overwriting overwritten overwrote overwrought oviduct ovoid ovular ovulation ovum ow owe owed owes owing owl owlet owlets owlish owlishly owls own owned owner owners ownership ownerships owning owns ox oxalate oxalic oxcart oxen oxford oxidant oxidants oxidation oxide oxides oxidisation oxidise oxidised oxidiser oxidising oxtail oxtails oxygen oxygenated oxygenating oxygenation oxymoron oyster oysters ozone ozonefriendly pa pace paced pacemaker pacemakers paceman pacemen pacer pacers paces pacey pachyderm pacific pacification pacified pacifier pacifies pacifism pacifist pacifists pacify pacifying pacing pack packable package packaged packages packaging packed packer packers packet packets packhorse packing packings packs pact pacts pad padded padding paddings paddle paddled paddler paddlers paddles paddling paddock paddocks paddy padlock padlocked padlocking padlocks padre padres pads paean paeans paediatric paediatrician paediatricians paediatrics paedophile paedophiles paedophilia paella paeony pagan paganism pagans page pageant pageantry pageants pageboy paged pageful pager pagers pages paginal paginate paginated paginating pagination paging pagoda pagodas paid paidup pail pails pain pained painful painfully painfulness paining painkiller painkillers painless painlessly pains painstaking painstakingly paint paintbox paintbrush painted painter painters painting paintings paints paintwork pair paired pairing pairings pairs pairwise pajama pajamas pakistan pal palace palaces palaeographic palaeolithic palaeontological palaeontologist palaeontologists palaeontology palatability palatable palatal palate palates palatial palatinate palatine palaver pale paled paleface palely paleness paler pales palest palette palettes palimpsest palindrome palindromes palindromic paling palisade palisades pall palladium pallbearers palled pallet pallets palliative palliatives pallid pallmall pallor palls palm palmed palming palmist palmistry palms palmtop palmtops palmy palp palpable palpably palpate palpated palpates palpitate palpitated palpitating palpitation palpitations pals palsied palsy paltrier paltriest paltriness paltry paludal pampas pamper pampered pampering pampers pamphlet pamphleteer pamphleteers pamphlets pan panacea panaceas panache panama pancake pancaked pancakes pancreas pancreatic panda pandas pandemic pandemics pandemonium pander pandering panders pandora pane paned panel panelled panelling panellist panellists panels panes pang panga pangas pangolin pangs panic panicked panicking panicky panics panicstricken panjandrum panned pannier panniers panning panoply panorama panoramas panoramic pans pansies pansy pant pantaloons pantechnicon panted pantheism pantheist pantheistic pantheon panther panthers panties pantile pantiled pantiles panting pantograph pantographs pantomime pantomimes pantries pantry pants panzer pap papa papacy papal paparazzi papas papaw papaws papaya paper paperback paperbacks papered papering paperless papers paperthin paperweight paperweights paperwork papery papilla papist pappy paprika papua papule papyri papyrus par parable parables parabola parabolas parabolic paraboloid paraboloids paracetamol parachute parachuted parachutes parachuting parachutist parachutists parade paraded parader parades paradigm paradigmatic paradigms parading paradise paradises paradox paradoxes paradoxical paradoxically paraffin paragliding paragon paragons paragraph paragraphing paragraphs paraguay parakeet parakeets paralinguistic parallax parallaxes parallel paralleled parallelepiped paralleling parallelism parallelogram parallelograms parallels paralyse paralysed paralyses paralysing paralysis paralytic paralytically paramagnetic paramagnetism paramedic paramedical paramedics parameter parameters parametric parametrically parametrisation parametrise parametrised parametrises paramilitaries paramilitary paramount paramountcy paramour paranoia paranoiac paranoiacs paranoid paranormal parapet parapets paraphernalia paraphrase paraphrased paraphrases paraphrasing paraplegic parapsychologist parapsychology paraquat parasite parasites parasitic parasitical parasitised parasitism parasitologist parasitology parasol parasols paratroop paratrooper paratroopers paratroops parboil parcel parcelled parcelling parcels parch parched parches parchment parchments pardon pardonable pardoned pardoning pardons pare pared parent parentage parental parented parenteral parentheses parenthesis parenthesise parenthesised parenthetic parenthetical parenthetically parenthood parenting parentinlaw parents parentsinlaw pares parfait parfaits pariah pariahs parietal paring paris parish parishes parishioner parishioners parisian parities parity park parka parkas parked parking parkland parks parlance parley parleying parliament parliamentarian parliamentarians parliamentary parliaments parlour parlourmaid parlours parlous parochial parochialism parochiality parodied parodies parodist parody parodying parole paroxysm paroxysms parquet parried parries parrot parroting parrots parry parrying parse parsec parsecs parsed parser parsers parses parsimonious parsimony parsing parsings parsley parsnip parsnips parson parsonage parsons part partake partaken partaker partakers partakes partaking parted parthenogenesis partial partiality partially participant participants participate participated participates participating participation participative participators participatory participle participles particle particles particular particularise particularised particularism particularities particularity particularly particulars particulate particulates parties parting partings partisan partisans partisanship partition partitioned partitioning partitions partly partner partnered partnering partners partnership partnerships partook partridge partridges parts parttime party parvenu pascal pascals paschal pass passable passably passage passages passageway passageways passant passe passed passenger passengers passer passers passersby passes passim passing passion passionate passionately passionateness passionless passions passivated passive passively passives passivity passmark passover passport passports password passwords past pasta pastas paste pasteboard pasted pastel pastels pastes pasteur pasteurisation pasteurised pastiche pastiches pasties pastille pastime pastimes pasting pastis pastor pastoral pastoralism pastors pastrami pastries pastry pasts pasture pastured pastureland pastures pasturing pasty pat patch patchable patched patches patchier patchiest patchily patchiness patching patchup patchwork patchy pate patella paten patent patentable patented patentee patenting patently patents pater paternal paternalism paternalist paternalistic paternally paternity pates path pathetic pathetically pathfinder pathfinders pathless pathogen pathogenesis pathogenic pathogens pathological pathologically pathologies pathologist pathologists pathology pathos paths pathway pathways patience patient patiently patients patina patination patio patisserie patois patriarch patriarchal patriarchies patriarchs patriarchy patrician patricians patrilineal patrimony patriot patriotic patriotism patriots patrol patrolled patrolling patrols patron patronage patroness patronesses patronisation patronise patronised patronises patronising patronisingly patrons pats patted patten pattens patter pattered pattering pattern patterned patterning patternless patterns patters patties patting paucity paul paunch paunchy pauper paupers pause paused pauses pausing pave paved pavement pavements paves pavilion pavilions paving pavings pavlov paw pawed pawing pawn pawnbroker pawnbrokers pawned pawning pawns pawnshop pawnshops pawpaw pawpaws paws pay payable payback payday paydays payed payee payees payer payers paying payload payloads paymaster paymasters payment payments payphone payphones payroll payrolls pays payslips pea peace peaceable peaceably peaceful peacefully peacefulness peacekeepers peacekeeping peacemaker peacemakers peacemaking peacetime peach peaches peachier peachiest peachy peacock peacocks peafowl peahens peak peaked peakiness peaking peaks peaky peal pealed pealing peals peanut peanuts pear pearl pearls pearly pears peartrees peas peasant peasantry peasants peat peatland peatlands peaty pebble pebbled pebbles pebbly pecan peccary peck pecked pecker peckers pecking peckish pecks pectin pectoral pectorals peculiar peculiarities peculiarity peculiarly pecuniary pedagogic pedagogical pedagogically pedagogue pedagogy pedal pedalled pedalling pedals pedant pedantic pedantically pedantry pedants peddle peddled peddler peddlers peddles peddling pederasts pedestal pedestals pedestrian pedestrianisation pedestrianised pedestrians pedigree pedigrees pediment pedimented pediments pedlar pedlars pedology peek peeked peeking peeks peel peeled peeler peelers peeling peelings peels peep peeped peeper peepers peephole peeping peeps peer peerage peerages peered peering peerless peers peevish peevishly peevishness peg pegasus pegged pegging pegs pejorative pejoratively pejoratives pekan peking pele pelican pelicans pellet pellets pelmet pelmets pelt pelted pelting pelts pelvic pelvis pelvises pen penal penalisation penalise penalised penalises penalising penalties penalty penance penances pence penchant pencil pencilled pencilling pencils pendant pendants pending pendulous pendulum pendulums penetrable penetrate penetrated penetrates penetrating penetratingly penetration penetrations penetrative penguin penguins penicillin penile peninsula peninsular peninsulas penitence penitent penitential penitentiary penitently penitents penknife penname pennames pennant pennants penned pennies penniless penning penny pennypinching penology pens pension pensionable pensioned pensioner pensioners pensioning pensions pensive pensively pensiveness pent pentagon pentagonal pentagons pentagram pentagrams pentameter pentameters pentasyllabic pentathlete pentathlon pentatonic pentecostal penthouse penultimate penultimately penumbra penurious penury peonies people peopled peoples pep peperoni pepper peppercorn peppercorns peppered peppering peppermint peppermints peppers peppery peps peptic peptide peptides per perambulate perambulated perambulating perambulations perambulator perannum percales perceivable perceive perceived perceives perceiving percent percentage percentages percentile percentiles percept perceptibility perceptible perceptibly perception perceptions perceptive perceptively perceptiveness percepts perceptual perceptually perch perchance perched percher perches perching perchlorate percipient percolate percolated percolates percolating percolation percolator percolators percuss percussed percusses percussing percussion percussionist percussionists percussive percussively percutaneous perdition peregrinations peregrine peregrines peremptorily peremptoriness peremptory perennial perennially perennials perestroika perfect perfected perfectibility perfecting perfection perfectionism perfectionist perfectionists perfections perfectly perfects perfidious perfidiously perfidy perforate perforated perforation perforations perforce perform performable performance performances performed performer performers performing performs perfume perfumed perfumery perfumes perfuming perfunctorily perfunctory perfused perfusion pergola pergolas perhaps peri periastron perigee periglacial perihelion peril perilous perilously perils perimeter perimeters perinatal perineal perineum period periodic periodical periodically periodicals periodicity periods perioperative peripatetic peripheral peripherally peripherals peripheries periphery periphrasis periphrastic periscope periscopes perish perishable perishables perished perishes perishing peritoneum perjure perjured perjurer perjury perk perked perkier perkiest perkily perking perks perky perm permafrost permanence permanency permanent permanently permanganate permeability permeable permeate permeated permeates permeating permeation permed perming permissibility permissible permission permissions permissive permissiveness permit permits permitted permitting permittivity perms permutation permutations permute permuted permutes permuting pernicious perniciousness peroration peroxidase peroxide peroxides perpendicular perpendicularly perpendiculars perpetrate perpetrated perpetrates perpetrating perpetration perpetrator perpetrators perpetual perpetually perpetuate perpetuated perpetuates perpetuating perpetuation perpetuity perplex perplexed perplexedly perplexing perplexities perplexity perquisite perquisites perron perry persecute persecuted persecuting persecution persecutions persecutor persecutors perseverance persevere persevered perseveres persevering perseveringly persia persian persist persisted persistence persistent persistently persisting persists person persona personable personae personage personages personal personalisation personalise personalised personalising personalities personality personally personification personifications personified personifies personify personifying personnel persons perspective perspectives perspex perspicacious perspicacity perspicuity perspicuous perspicuously perspiration perspire perspiring persuade persuaded persuaders persuades persuading persuasion persuasions persuasive persuasively persuasiveness pert pertain pertained pertaining pertains perth pertinacious pertinaciously pertinacity pertinence pertinent pertinently pertly pertness perturb perturbation perturbations perturbed perturbing peru perusal peruse perused peruses perusing peruvian pervade pervaded pervades pervading pervasive pervasiveness perverse perversely perverseness perversion perversions perversity pervert perverted perverting perverts peseta pesetas pesky pessimism pessimist pessimistic pessimistically pessimists pest pester pestered pestering pesticide pesticides pestilence pestilent pestilential pestle pests pet petal petals petard peter petered petering peters pethidine petit petite petition petitioned petitioner petitioners petitioning petitions petrel petrels petrification petrified petrifies petrify petrifying petrochemical petrochemicals petrographic petrographical petrol petroleum petrological petrology pets petted petticoat petticoats pettier pettiest pettifoggers pettifogging pettiness petting pettish pettishly pettishness petty petulance petulant petulantly petunia petunias pew pews pewter phalanx phantasy phantom phantoms pharaoh pharmaceutical pharmaceuticals pharmacies pharmacist pharmacists pharmacological pharmacologist pharmacologists pharmacology pharmacy pharynx phase phased phases phasing pheasant pheasants phenol phenols phenomena phenomenal phenomenally phenomenological phenomenologically phenomenologists phenomenology phenomenon phenotype phenotypes phenylalanine pheromone pheromones phew philanthropic philanthropist philanthropists philanthropy philatelic philatelists philately philharmonic philistine philological philologist philologists philology philosopher philosophers philosophic philosophical philosophically philosophies philosophise philosophising philosophy phlebotomy phlegm phlegmatic phlegmatically phlogiston phlox phobia phobias phobic phoenix phoenixes phone phoned phoneme phonemes phonemic phonemically phoner phones phonetic phonetically phoneticians phoneticist phonetics phoney phoneys phoning phonograph phonographic phonological phonologically phonology phonon phony phooey phosphatase phosphate phosphates phosphatic phospholipids phosphor phosphorescence phosphorescent phosphoric phosphorous phosphors phosphorus photo photocells photochemical photochemically photochemistry photocopied photocopier photocopiers photocopies photocopy photocopying photoelectric photoelectrically photogenic photograph photographed photographer photographers photographic photographically photographing photographs photography photolysis photolytic photometric photometrically photometry photomultiplier photon photons photoreceptor photos photosensitive photosphere photostat photosynthesis photosynthesising photosynthetic photosynthetically phototypesetter phototypesetting photovoltaic phrasal phrase phrasebook phrased phraseology phrases phrasing phrenological phrenologically phrenologists phrenology phyla phylactery phylogenetic phylogeny phylum physic physical physicality physically physician physicians physicist physicists physics physio physiognomies physiognomy physiological physiologically physiologist physiologists physiology physiotherapist physiotherapists physiotherapy physique phytoplankton pi pianissimo pianist pianistic pianists piano pianoforte pianola piazza piazzas pica picaresque picasso piccolo pick pickaxe pickaxes picked picker pickerel pickerels pickers picket picketed picketing pickets picking pickings pickle pickled pickles pickling pickpocket pickpocketing pickpockets picks pickup pickups picnic picnicked picnickers picnicking picnics picoseconds pictogram pictograms pictographic pictorial pictorially pictural picture pictured pictures picturesque picturesquely picturesqueness picturing pidgin pie piebald piece pieced piecemeal pieces piecewise piecework piecing pied pier pierce pierced piercer piercers pierces piercing piercingly piers pies pieta piety piezoelectric piffle pig pigeon pigeons piggery piggish piggy piggyback piglet piglets pigment pigmentation pigmented pigments pigs pigsties pigsty pigtail pigtailed pigtails pike pikemen pikes pikestaff pilaster pilasters pilchard pilchards pile piled piles pileup pilfer pilfered pilfering pilgrim pilgrimage pilgrimages pilgrims piling pill pillage pillaged pillages pillaging pillar pillared pillars pillbox pillion pilloried pillories pillory pillow pillowcase pillowcases pillowed pillows pills pilot piloted piloting pilots pimp pimpernel pimping pimple pimpled pimples pimply pimps pin pinafore pinafores pinball pincer pincered pincers pinch pinched pincher pinches pinching pincushion pincushions pine pineal pineapple pineapples pined pines ping pingpong pings pinhead pinheads pinhole pinholes pining pinion pinioned pinions pink pinked pinker pinkie pinkies pinking pinkish pinkness pinks pinky pinnacle pinnacled pinnacles pinned pinning pinpoint pinpointed pinpointing pinpoints pinprick pinpricks pins pinstripe pinstriped pinstripes pint pints pintsized pinup pinups piny pion pioneer pioneered pioneering pioneers pions pious piously pip pipe piped pipeline pipelines piper pipers pipes pipette pipettes pipework piping pipings pipit pipits pipped pippin pipping pips piquancy piquant pique piqued piracies piracy piranha piranhas pirate pirated pirates piratical pirating pirouette pirouetted pirouettes pirouetting pisa pistol pistols piston pistons pit pitbull pitch pitchdark pitched pitcher pitchers pitches pitchfork pitchforks pitching piteous piteously pitfall pitfalls pith pithead pithier pithiest pithily piths pithy pitiable pitiably pitied pities pitiful pitifully pitiless pitilessly piton pitons pits pittance pitted pitting pituitary pity pitying pityingly pivot pivotal pivoted pivoting pivots pixel pixels pixie pixies pizazz pizza pizzas pizzeria pizzerias pizzicato placard placards placate placated placates placating placatingly placatory place placebo placed placeholder placemen placement placements placenta placentae placental placentas placer placers places placid placidity placidly placing placings plagiarise plagiarised plagiarising plagiarism plagiarist plagiarists plague plagued plagues plaguing plaice plaid plaids plain plainest plainly plainness plains plaint plaintiff plaintiffs plaintive plaintively plait plaited plaiting plaits plan planar plane planed planes planet planetarium planetary planetesimals planetoids planets plangent planing plank planking planks plankton planktonic planned planner planners planning plans plant plantain plantation plantations planted planter planters planting plantings plants plaque plaques plasm plasma plasmas plasmid plasmids plaster plasterboard plastered plasterer plasterers plastering plasters plasterwork plastic plasticised plasticisers plasticity plastics plate plateau plateaus plateaux plated plateful platefuls platelet platelets platen platens plates platform platforms plating platinum platitude platitudes platitudinous plato platonic platoon platoons platter platters platypus platypuses plaudits plausibility plausible plausibly play playable playback playboy playboys played player players playfellow playfellows playful playfully playfulness playground playgrounds playgroup playgroups playhouse playing playings playmate playmates playroom plays plaything playthings playtime playwright playwrights plaza plazas plea plead pleaded pleading pleadingly pleadings pleads pleas pleasant pleasanter pleasantest pleasantly pleasantness pleasantries pleasantry please pleased pleases pleasing pleasingly pleasurable pleasurably pleasure pleasures pleat pleated pleats pleb plebeian plebiscite plebs plectrum plectrums pledge pledged pledges pledging plenary plenipotentiary plenitude plenteous plenteously plentiful plentifully plenty plenum plethora pleura pleural pleurisy plexus pliable pliant plied pliers plies plight plights plimsolls plinth plinths plod plodded plodder plodding plods plop plopped plopping plops plosive plot plots plotted plotter plotters plotting plough ploughed ploughers ploughing ploughman ploughmen ploughs ploughshare ploughshares plover plovers ploy ploys pluck plucked plucker pluckier pluckiest plucking plucks plucky plug plugged plugging plughole plugs plum plumage plumages plumb plumbago plumbed plumber plumbers plumbing plumbs plume plumed plumes pluming plummet plummeted plummeting plummets plummy plump plumped plumper plumping plumpness plums plumtree plumy plunder plundered plunderers plundering plunders plunge plunged plunger plungers plunges plunging pluperfect plural pluralisation pluralise pluralised pluralising pluralism pluralist pluralistic pluralists plurality plurals plus pluses plush plushy pluto plutocracy plutocrats plutonic plutonium ply plying plywood pneumatic pneumatics pneumonia poach poached poacher poachers poaches poaching pock pocked pocket pocketbook pocketed pocketful pocketing pockets pockmarked pocks pod podded podgy podia podium podiums pods poem poems poet poetess poetic poetical poetically poetics poetise poetry poets pogo pogrom pogroms poignancy poignant poignantly poikilothermic poinsettias point pointblank pointed pointedly pointedness pointer pointers pointillism pointillist pointing pointless pointlessly pointlessness points pointy poise poised poises poising poison poisoned poisoner poisoning poisonings poisonous poisons poke poked poker pokerfaced pokers pokes poking poky poland polar polarisation polarisations polarise polarised polarising polarities polarity polder pole polecat polecats poled polemic polemical polemicist polemics poles polestar polevaulting poleward polewards police policed policeman policemen polices policewoman policewomen policies policing policy policyholder policyholders polio poliomyelitis polish polished polisher polishers polishes polishing polishings politburo polite politely politeness politer politesse politest politic political politically politician politicians politicisation politicise politicised politicising politicking politics polity polka polkas poll pollarded polled pollen pollens pollinate pollinated pollinating pollination pollinator pollinators polling polls pollster pollsters pollutant pollutants pollute polluted polluter polluters pollutes polluting pollution pollutions polo polonaise polonaises poloneck polonies polonium polony poltergeist poltergeists poltroon polyandry polyatomic polycarbonate polychromatic polychrome polycotton polycrystalline polycyclic polyester polyesters polyethylene polygamous polygamy polyglot polyglots polygon polygonal polygons polygraph polygynous polygyny polyhedra polyhedral polyhedron polymath polymer polymerase polymerases polymeric polymerisation polymerised polymers polymorphic polymorphism polymorphisms polymorphous polynomial polynomially polynomials polyp polypeptide polypeptides polyphonic polyphony polypropylene polyps polysaccharide polysaccharides polystyrene polysyllabic polysyllable polysyllables polytechnic polytechnics polytheism polytheist polytheistic polytheists polythene polytopes polyunsaturated polyunsaturates polyurethane pomade pomades pomegranate pomegranates pomelo pomp pompadour pompeii pompey pomposity pompous pompously pompousness ponce poncho pond ponder pondered pondering ponderous ponderously ponders ponds ponies pontiff pontiffs pontifical pontificate pontificated pontificating pontification pontifications pontoon pontoons pony ponytail pooch pooches poodle poodles poof pooh pool pooled pooling pools poolside poop poor poorer poorest poorly poorness poorspirited pop popcorn pope popes popeyed poplar poplars popmusic popped popper poppet poppies popping poppy poppycock pops populace popular popularisation popularisations popularise popularised popularising popularity popularly populate populated populating population populations populism populist populists populous popup porcelain porch porches porcine porcupine porcupines pore pored pores poring pork porkchop porker porky porn porno pornographer pornographers pornographic pornography porns porosity porous porphyritic porphyry porpoise porpoises porridge port portability portable portables portage portal portals portcullis portcullises ported portend portended portending portends portent portentous portentously portents porter porterage porters portfolio porthole portholes portico porting portion portions portly portmanteau portmanteaus portrait portraitist portraits portraiture portray portrayal portrayals portrayed portraying portrays ports portugal pose posed poseidon poser posers poses poseur poseurs posh posies posing posit posited positing position positionable positional positionally positioned positioning positions positive positively positiveness positives positivism positivist positivists positivity positron positrons posits posse possess possessed possesses possessing possession possessions possessive possessively possessiveness possessives possessor possessors possibilities possibility possible possibles possibly possum possums post postage postal postbag postbox postboxes postcard postcards postcode postcodes postdated posted poster posterior posteriors posterity posters postfixes postgraduate postgraduates posthumous posthumously postilion postilions postillion posting postings postlude postman postmark postmarked postmarks postmaster postmasters postmen postmistress postmodern postmodernism postmodernist postmortem postmortems postnatal postoperative postoperatively postpone postponed postponement postponements postpones postponing posts postscript postscripts postulate postulated postulates postulating postulation postural posture postured postures posturing posturings posy pot potable potash potassium potato potbellied potch potencies potency potent potentate potentates potential potentialities potentiality potentially potentials potentiometer potentiometers potently pothole potholes potion potions potpourri pots potsherds potshot potshots pottage potted potter pottered potteries pottering potters pottery potties potting potty pouch pouches pouffe pouffes poult poulterer poultice poultry pounce pounced pounces pouncing pound poundage pounded pounding pounds pour pourable poured pouring pours pout pouted pouter pouting pouts poverty povertystricken powder powdered powdering powders powdery power powerboat powerboats powered powerful powerfully powerfulness powerhouse powerhouses powering powerless powerlessness powers powersharing pox practicabilities practicability practicable practical practicalities practicality practically practicals practice practices practise practised practises practising practitioner practitioners pragmatic pragmatically pragmatics pragmatism pragmatist pragmatists prague prairie prairies praise praised praises praiseworthy praising praline pram prams prance pranced prancer prancing prang prank pranks prankster pranksters prat prattle prattled prattler prattling prawn prawns pray prayed prayer prayerbook prayerful prayerfully prayers praying prays pre preach preached preacher preachers preaches preaching preachings preadolescent preallocate preamble preambles preamp preamplifier prearranged preauthorise prebend prebendary precarious precariously precariousness precaution precautionary precautions precede preceded precedence precedences precedent precedents precedes preceding precept precepts precess precessed precessing precession precinct precincts precious preciously preciousness precipice precipices precipitate precipitated precipitately precipitates precipitating precipitation precipitous precipitously precis precise precisely preciseness precision precisions preclinical preclude precluded precludes precluding precocious precociously precociousness precocity precognition precognitions precomputed preconceived preconception preconceptions precondition preconditions precooked precursor precursors predate predated predates predating predation predations predator predators predatory predeceased predecessor predecessors predeclared predefine predefined predefining predestination predestined predetermination predetermine predetermined predetermines predicament predicaments predicate predicated predicates predicating predicative predict predictability predictable predictably predicted predicting prediction predictions predictive predictor predictors predicts predilection predilections predispose predisposed predisposes predisposing predisposition predispositions predominance predominant predominantly predominate predominated predominates predominating preen preened preening preens prefab prefabricated prefabrication prefabs preface prefaced prefaces prefacing prefatory prefect prefects prefecture prefer preferable preferably preference preferences preferential preferentially preferment preferred preferring prefers prefigured prefix prefixed prefixes prefixing pregnancies pregnancy pregnant preheat preheating prehensile prehistoric prehistory prejudge prejudged prejudging prejudice prejudiced prejudices prejudicial prejudicing prelate prelates preliminaries preliminarily preliminary prelude preludes premature prematurely prematureness prematurity premeditate premeditated premeditation premenstrual premier premiere premiered premieres premiers premiership premise premised premises premising premiss premisses premium premiums premolar premolars premonition premonitions prenatal preoccupation preoccupations preoccupied preoccupy preoccupying preordained prep prepaid preparation preparations preparative preparatory prepare prepared preparedness preparer preparers prepares preparing prepayment prepays preplanned preponderance preponderant preponderantly preposition prepositional prepositions preposterous preposterously preps prerogative prerogatives presbytery preschool prescribe prescribed prescribes prescribing prescription prescriptions prescriptive prescriptively prescriptivism prescriptivist preselect preselected preselects presence presences present presentable presentation presentational presentations presented presenter presenters presentiment presentiments presenting presently presents preservation preservationists preservative preservatives preserve preserved preserver preserves preserving preset presets presetting preside presided presidencies presidency president presidential presidents presides presiding presidium press pressed presses pressing pressingly pressings pressman pressmen pressup pressups pressure pressurecooking pressured pressures pressuring pressurise pressurised pressurises pressurising prestidigitation prestidigitator prestidigitatorial prestige prestigious presto presumable presumably presume presumed presumes presuming presumption presumptions presumptive presumptively presumptuous presumptuously presumptuousness presuppose presupposed presupposes presupposing presupposition presuppositions pretence pretences pretend pretended pretender pretenders pretending pretends pretension pretensions pretentious pretentiously pretentiousness preterite preternatural preternaturally pretext pretexts pretor pretoria pretreated pretreatment pretreatments prettier prettiest prettify prettily prettiness pretty prevail prevailed prevailing prevails prevalence prevalent prevalently prevaricate prevaricated prevaricating prevarication prevent preventable prevented preventing prevention preventions preventive prevents preview previewed previewer previewers previewing previews previous previously prevue prevues prey preyed preying preys priapic price priced priceless prices pricewar pricey pricier pricing prick pricked pricking prickle prickled prickles pricklier prickliest prickliness prickling prickly pricks pricy pride prided prides pried pries priest priestess priestesses priesthood priestly priests prig priggish priggishly priggishness prim primacy primaeval primal primaries primarily primary primate primates prime primed primeness primer primers primes primetime primeval priming primitive primitively primitiveness primitives primly primness primogeniture primordial primrose primroses primus prince princelings princely princes princess princesses principal principalities principality principally principals principle principled principles print printable printed printer printers printing printings printmakers printmaking printout printouts prints prions prior priories priorities prioritisation prioritise prioritised prioritises prioritising priority priors priory prise prised prises prising prism prismatic prisms prison prisoner prisoners prisons prissy pristine privacy private privateer privateers privately privates privation privations privatisation privatisations privatise privatised privatises privatising privet privilege privileged privileges privileging privy prize prized prizer prizes prizewinner prizing pro proactive probabilist probabilistic probabilistically probabilities probability probable probably probate probation probationary probative probe probed prober probes probing probity problem problematic problematical problematically problems proboscis procedural procedurally procedure procedures proceed proceeded proceeding proceedings proceeds process processable processed processes processing procession processional processions processor processors proclaim proclaimed proclaimers proclaiming proclaims proclamation proclamations proclivities proclivity procrastinate procrastinating procrastination procrastinations procrastinator procrastinators procreate procreated procreating procreation procreational procreative procreatory proctor proctorial proctors procurable procure procured procurement procurements procures procuring prod prodded prodding prodeo prodigal prodigality prodigally prodigies prodigious prodigiously prodigy prods produce produced producer producers produces producible producing product production productions productive productively productivity products profanation profane profaned profanely profaneness profanities profanity profess professed professedly professes professing profession professional professionalisation professionalised professionalism professionally professionals professions professor professorial professors professorship professorships proffer proffered proffering proffers proficiencies proficiency proficient proficiently profile profiled profiles profiling profit profitability profitable profitably profited profiteering profiteers profiteroles profiting profitless profits profittaking profligacy profligate profligately proforma proformas profound profounder profoundest profoundly profundity profuse profusely profuseness profusion progenitor progenitors progeny progesterone prognoses prognosis prognosticate prognostication prognostications program programmable programmatic programme programmed programmer programmers programmes programming programs progress progressed progresses progressing progression progressions progressive progressively progressiveness progressives prohibit prohibited prohibiting prohibition prohibitionist prohibitionists prohibitions prohibitive prohibitively prohibits project projected projectile projectiles projecting projection projectionist projections projective projectively projector projectors projects prokaryotes prolactin prolapse prolapsed proletarian proletarianisation proletarians proletariat proliferate proliferated proliferates proliferating proliferation proliferative prolific prolifically prolix prologue prologues prolong prolongation prolonged prolonging prolongs promenade promenaded promenader promenaders promenades prominence prominences prominent prominently promiscuity promiscuous promiscuously promise promised promises promising promisingly promissory promontories promontory promotable promote promoted promoter promoters promotes promoting promotion promotional promotions prompt prompted prompter prompters prompting promptings promptitude promptly promptness prompts promulgate promulgated promulgating promulgation promulgations prone proneness prong prongs pronominal pronoun pronounce pronounceable pronounced pronouncedly pronouncement pronouncements pronounces pronouncing pronouns pronto pronunciation pronunciations proof proofed proofing proofread proofreader proofreaders proofreading proofreads proofs prop propaganda propagandist propagandists propagate propagated propagates propagating propagation propagator propagators propane propel propellant propellants propelled propeller propellers propelling propels propensities propensity proper properly propertied properties property prophecies prophecy prophesied prophesies prophesy prophesying prophet prophetess prophetic prophetically prophets prophylactic prophylactics prophylaxis propinquity propionate propitiate propitiated propitiating propitiation propitiatory propitious proponent proponents proportion proportional proportionality proportionally proportionate proportionately proportioned proportions proposal proposals propose proposed proposer proposers proposes proposing proposition propositional propositioned propositioning propositions propound propounded propounding propped propping proprietary proprieties proprietor proprietorial proprietorially proprietors proprietorship proprietress propriety proprioceptive props propulsion propulsive propylene pros prosaic prosaically prosaist proscenium proscribe proscribed proscription proscriptive prose prosecutable prosecute prosecuted prosecutes prosecuting prosecution prosecutions prosecutor prosecutorial prosecutors proselytise proselytising prosodic prosody prospect prospecting prospective prospectively prospector prospectors prospects prospectus prospectuses prosper prospered prospering prosperity prosperous prosperously prospers prostaglandin prostaglandins prostate prostates prostatic prosthesis prosthetic prostitute prostituted prostitutes prostituting prostitution prostrate prostrated prostrates prostrating prostration protactinium protagonist protagonists protea protean proteas protease protect protected protecting protection protectionism protectionist protectionists protections protective protectively protectiveness protector protectorate protectorates protectors protects protege protegee protegees proteges protein proteins protest protestant protestantism protestants protestation protestations protested protester protesters protesting protestor protestors protests protists protocol protocols proton protons protoplasm protoplasmic prototype prototyped prototypes prototypical prototyping protozoa protozoan protozoans protract protracted protractor protractors protrude protruded protrudes protruding protrusion protrusions protrusive protuberance protuberances proud prouder proudest proudly provable provably prove proved proven provenance provence proverb proverbial proverbially proverbs proves providable provide provided providence provident providential providentially provider providers provides providing province provinces provincial provincialism proving provision provisional provisionally provisioned provisioning provisions provocation provocations provocative provocatively provoke provoked provoker provokes provoking provokingly provost prow prowess prowl prowled prowler prowlers prowling prowls prows proxies proximal proximally proximate proximately proximity proximo proxy prude prudence prudent prudential prudently prudery prudish prudishness prune pruned pruners prunes pruning prunings prurience prurient pruritus prussia prussian prussic pry prying pryings psalm psalmist psalmody psalms psalter psalters psaltery psephologist pseudo pseudonym pseudonymous pseudonyms pseudopod psoriasis psyche psychedelia psychedelic psychiatric psychiatrist psychiatrists psychiatry psychic psychically psychics psycho psychoanalyse psychoanalysis psychoanalyst psychoanalysts psychoanalytic psychokinesis psychokinetic psycholinguistic psycholinguistics psycholinguists psychological psychologically psychologies psychologist psychologists psychology psychometric psychopath psychopathic psychopathology psychopaths psychoses psychosis psychosocial psychosomatic psychotherapist psychotherapists psychotherapy psychotic psychotically psychotics ptarmigan ptarmigans pterodactyl pterosaurs ptolemy pub puberty pubescent pubic public publican publicans publication publications publicise publicised publicises publicising publicist publicists publicity publicly publish publishable published publisher publishers publishes publishing pubs pudding puddings puddle puddles puerile puerility puerperal puff puffballs puffed puffer puffin puffiness puffing puffins puffs puffy pug pugilist pugilistic pugnacious pugnaciously pugnacity pugs puissant puke puking pulchritude puling pull pulled puller pullets pulley pulleys pulling pullover pullovers pulls pulmonary pulp pulped pulping pulpit pulpits pulps pulpy pulsar pulsars pulsate pulsated pulsates pulsating pulsation pulsations pulse pulsed pulses pulsing pulverisation pulverise pulverised pulverising puma pumas pumice pummel pummelled pummelling pummels pump pumped pumping pumpkin pumpkins pumps pun punch punchable punchbowl punchcard punched puncher punches punching punchline punchlines punchy punctate punctilious punctiliously punctual punctuality punctually punctuate punctuated punctuates punctuating punctuation punctuational punctuations puncture punctured punctures puncturing pundit pundits pungency pungent pungently punier puniest punish punishable punished punishes punishing punishment punishments punitive punitively punk punks punky punned punnet punning puns punster punt punted punter punters punting punts puny pup pupa pupae pupal pupated pupates pupating pupil pupillage pupils puppet puppeteer puppetry puppets puppies puppy puppyhood pups purblind purchasable purchase purchased purchaser purchasers purchases purchasing purdah pure puree purees purely pureness purer purest purgative purgatorial purgatory purge purged purges purging purgings purification purified purifier purifies purify purifying purims purines purist purists puritan puritanical puritanism puritans purities purity purl purlieus purling purlins purloin purloined purls purple purples purplish purport purported purportedly purporting purports purpose purposed purposeful purposefully purposefulness purposeless purposelessly purposely purposes purposing purposive purr purred purring purrs purse pursed purser purses pursing pursuance pursuant pursue pursued pursuer pursuers pursues pursuing pursuit pursuits purvey purveyance purveyed purveying purveyor purveyors purview pus push pushable pushed pusher pushers pushes pushier pushing pushovers pushups pushy puss pussy pussycat pussyfooting pustular pustule pustules put putative putatively putput putrefaction putrefy putrefying putrescent putrid putridity puts putsch putt putted putter putters putti putting putts putty puzzle puzzled puzzlement puzzler puzzles puzzling puzzlingly pygmies pygmy pyjama pyjamas pylon pylons pyracantha pyramid pyramidal pyramids pyre pyres pyridine pyrite pyrites pyrolyse pyrolysis pyromaniac pyromaniacs pyrotechnic pyrotechnics pyroxene pyroxenes python pythons qatar qua quack quacked quacking quackish quacks quadrangle quadrangles quadrangular quadrant quadrants quadratic quadratically quadratics quadrature quadratures quadrilateral quadrilaterals quadrille quadrilles quadripartite quadrophonic quadruped quadrupeds quadruple quadrupled quadruples quadruplets quadruplicate quadrupling quadruply quadrupole quaff quaffed quaffing quagga quaggas quagmire quagmires quail quailed quails quaint quainter quaintly quaintness quake quaked quaker quakers quakes quaking qualification qualifications qualified qualifier qualifiers qualifies qualify qualifying qualitative qualitatively qualities quality qualm qualms quantifiable quantification quantified quantifier quantifiers quantifies quantify quantifying quantisation quantise quantised quantitative quantitatively quantities quantity quantum quarantine quarantined quark quarks quarrel quarrelled quarrelling quarrels quarrelsome quarried quarries quarry quarrying quarrymen quart quarter quarterback quartered quartering quarterly quartermaster quarters quarterstaff quarterstaffs quartet quartets quartic quartics quartile quartiles quarto quarts quartz quartzite quasar quasars quash quashed quashing quasi quasilinear quaternary quaternion quaternions quatrain quatrains quaver quavered quavering quavers quay quays quayside queasiness queasy quebec queen queenly queens queer queerest queerly quell quelled quelling quells quench quenched quencher quenchers quenches quenching queried queries quern querulous querulously querulousness query querying quest questing question questionable questionably questioned questioner questioners questioning questioningly questionings questionnaire questionnaires questions quests queue queued queueing queues queuing quibble quibbles quibbling quiche quiches quick quicken quickened quickening quickens quicker quickest quicklime quickly quickness quicksand quicksands quicksilver quickwitted quid quids quiesce quiesced quiescence quiescent quiet quieted quieten quietened quietening quietens quieter quietest quieting quietly quietness quiets quietus quiff quill quills quilt quilted quilting quilts quince quincentenary quinces quinine quinquennial quintessence quintessential quintessentially quintet quintets quintic quintillion quintuple quip quipped quipper quips quire quirk quirkier quirkiest quirkiness quirks quirky quisling quit quite quits quitted quitter quitting quiver quivered quivering quiveringly quivers quixotic quiz quizzed quizzes quizzical quizzically quizzing quoins quoits quondam quorate quorum quota quotable quotas quotation quotations quote quoted quoter quotes quotidian quotient quotients quoting quovadis rabat rabats rabbi rabbis rabbit rabbiting rabbits rabble rabid rabidly rabies raccoon raccoons race racecourse racecourses raced racegoers racehorse racehorses racer racers races racetrack rachis racial racialism racialist racialists racially racier raciest racily racing racings racism racist racists rack racked racket racketeering rackets racking racks raconteur racoon racquet racquets racy rad radar radars radial radially radials radian radiance radiancy radians radiant radiantly radiate radiated radiates radiating radiation radiations radiative radiatively radiator radiators radical radicalism radically radicals radices radii radio radioactive radioactively radioactivity radioastronomical radiocarbon radioed radiogalaxies radiogalaxy radiogram radiograph radiographer radiographers radiographic radiographs radiography radioing radiological radiologist radiologists radiology radiometric radionuclide radios radiotherapy radish radishes radium radius radix radon raffia raffle raffled raffles raft rafter rafters rafting raftman rafts raftsman rag ragamuffin ragamuffins ragbag rage raged rages ragged raggedly raging ragout rags ragstoriches ragtime ragwort raid raided raider raiders raiding raids rail railed railes railing railings raillery railroad rails railway railwayman railwaymen railways raiment rain rainbow rainbows raincloud rainclouds raincoat raincoats raindrop raindrops rained rainfall rainforest rainforests rainier rainiest raining rainless rainout rains rainstorm rainstorms rainswept rainwater rainy raise raised raiser raises raisin raising raisins raj rajah rake raked rakes raking rakish rallied rallies rally rallying ram ramble rambled rambler ramblers rambles rambling ramblings ramification ramifications ramified ramifies ramify rammed rammer ramming ramp rampage rampaged rampages rampaging rampant rampantly rampart ramparts ramped ramping ramps ramrod rams ramshackle ran ranch rancher ranchers ranches ranching rancid rancorous rancour rand random randomisation randomise randomised randomising randomly randomness rands randy rang range ranged ranger rangers ranges ranging rangy rani ranis rank ranked ranker rankers rankest ranking rankings rankle rankled rankles rankling rankness ranks ransack ransacked ransacking ransom ransomed ransoming ransoms rant ranted ranter ranters ranting rantings rants rap rapacious rapacity rape raped rapes rapeseed rapid rapidity rapidly rapids rapier rapiers rapine raping rapist rapists rapped rapping rapport rapporteur rapporteurs rapports rapprochement raps rapt raptor raptors rapture raptures rapturous rapturously rare rarebit rarefaction rarefactions rarefied rarely rareness rarer rarest raring rarities rarity rascal rascally rascals rased rash rasher rashers rashes rashest rashly rashness rasing rasp raspberries raspberry rasped rasper rasping rasps raspy raster rasters rat ratatouille rate rated ratepayer ratepayers rater rates rather ratification ratifications ratified ratifier ratifies ratify ratifying rating ratings ratio ratiocination ration rational rationale rationales rationalisation rationalisations rationalise rationalised rationalising rationalism rationalist rationalistic rationalists rationalities rationality rationally rationed rationing rations ratios ratlike ratrace rats rattier rattle rattled rattler rattles rattlesnake rattlesnakes rattling ratty raucous raucously ravage ravaged ravages ravaging rave raved ravel ravelled ravelling ravels raven ravening ravenous ravenously ravens raver ravers raves ravine ravines raving ravingly ravings ravioli ravish ravished ravisher ravishes ravishing ravishingly raw rawest rawness ray rayed rayon rays raze razed razes razing razor razorbills razorblades razoring razors razorsharp razzmatazz re reabsorb reabsorbed reabsorption reaccept reaccessed reach reachable reached reaches reachieved reaching reacquainting reacquired reacquisition react reactant reactants reacted reacting reaction reactionaries reactionary reactions reactivate reactivated reactivates reactivating reactivation reactive reactivities reactivity reactor reactors reacts read readability readable readably readapt reader readers readership readerships readied readier readies readiest readily readiness reading readings readjust readjusted readjusting readjustment readjustments readmission readmit readmits readmitted reads ready readying readymade reaffirm reaffirmation reaffirmed reaffirming reaffirms reafforestation reagent reagents real realign realigned realigning realignment realignments realigns realisable realisation realisations realise realised realises realising realism realist realistic realistically realists realities reality reallife reallocate reallocated reallocates reallocating reallocation really realm realms realness realpolitik reals realty ream reams reanimated reanimating reap reaped reaper reapers reaping reappear reappearance reappeared reappearing reappears reapplied reapply reapplying reappoint reappointed reappointment reappraisal reappraised reappraising reaps rear reared rearer rearguard rearing rearm rearmament rearmed rearming rearms rearrange rearranged rearrangement rearrangements rearranges rearranging rears rearview rearward reason reasonable reasonableness reasonably reasoned reasoner reasoners reasoning reasonless reasons reassemble reassembled reassembling reassembly reassert reasserted reasserting reassertion reasserts reassess reassessed reassessment reassessments reassign reassigned reassigning reassignment reassigns reassume reassuming reassurance reassurances reassure reassured reassures reassuring reassuringly reattachment reattempt reawaken reawakened reawakening rebalanced rebate rebates rebel rebelled rebelling rebellion rebellions rebellious rebelliously rebelliousness rebels rebind rebirth rebirths rebook reboot rebooted reborn rebound rebounded rebounding rebounds rebuff rebuffed rebuffing rebuffs rebuild rebuilding rebuilds rebuilt rebuke rebuked rebukes rebuking reburial reburied rebury rebus rebut rebuttable rebuttal rebuttals rebutted rebutting recalcitrance recalcitrant recalculate recalculated recalculation recalibrate recalibrating recalibration recall recalled recalling recalls recant recantation recanted recanting recants recap recapitalisation recapitulate recapitulates recapitulation recapped recaps recapture recaptured recapturing recast recasting recasts recede receded recedes receding receipt receipted receipts receivable receive received receiver receivers receivership receives receiving recency recension recent recently receptacle receptacles reception receptionist receptionists receptions receptive receptiveness receptivity receptor receptors recess recessed recesses recession recessional recessionary recessions recessive recharge rechargeable recharged recharger recharges recharging recheck rechecked rechecking recidivism recidivist recidivists recipe recipes recipient recipients reciprocal reciprocally reciprocals reciprocate reciprocated reciprocating reciprocation reciprocity recirculate recirculated recirculating recirculation recital recitals recitation recitations recitative recitatives recite recited recites reciting reckless recklessly recklessness reckon reckoned reckoner reckoning reckons reclaim reclaimable reclaimed reclaimer reclaiming reclaims reclamation reclamations reclassification reclassified reclassifies reclassify reclassifying recline reclined recliner reclines reclining reclothe recluse recluses reclusive recode recoded recodes recoding recognisable recognisably recognisances recognise recognised recogniser recognisers recognises recognising recognition recognitions recoil recoiled recoiling recoils recollect recollected recollecting recollection recollections recollects recombinant recombinants recombination recombine recombined recombines recombining recommence recommenced recommencement recommences recommencing recommend recommendable recommendation recommendations recommended recommending recommends recommissioning recompense recompensed recompenses recompilation recompilations recompile recompiled recompiling recomputable recompute recomputed recomputes recomputing reconcilable reconcile reconciled reconcilement reconciles reconciliation reconciliations reconciling recondite reconditioned reconditioning reconfigurable reconfiguration reconfigurations reconfigure reconfigured reconfigures reconfiguring reconnaissance reconnect reconnected reconnecting reconnection reconnoitre reconnoitred reconnoitring reconquer reconquest reconsider reconsideration reconsidered reconsidering reconsiders reconstitute reconstituted reconstitutes reconstituting reconstitution reconstruct reconstructed reconstructing reconstruction reconstructions reconstructs reconsult reconsulted reconsulting recontribute reconvene reconvened reconvening reconversion reconvert reconverted recopied recopy record recordable recordbreaking recorded recorder recorders recording recordings recordist recordists records recount recounted recounting recounts recoup recouped recouping recouple recoups recourse recover recoverability recoverable recovered recoveries recovering recovers recovery recreate recreated recreates recreating recreation recreational recreations recriminate recrimination recriminations recruit recruited recruiter recruiters recruiting recruitment recruits recrystallisation rectal rectangle rectangles rectangular rectifiable rectification rectified rectifier rectifies rectify rectifying rectilinear rectitude recto rector rectors rectory rectrix rectum rectums recumbent recuperate recuperated recuperates recuperating recuperation recuperative recur recured recures recuring recurred recurrence recurrences recurrent recurrently recurring recurs recursion recursions recursive recursively recyclable recycle recycled recyclers recycles recycling red redaction redblooded redbreast redcoats redcross redden reddened reddening reddens redder reddest reddish redeclaration redecorated redecorating redecoration rededication redeem redeemable redeemed redeemer redeeming redeems redefine redefined redefiner redefines redefining redefinition redefinitions redeliver redelivery redemption redemptions redemptive redeploy redeployed redeploying redeployment redeposited redeposition redesign redesigned redesigning redesigns redevelop redeveloped redeveloping redevelopment redfaced redhanded redhead redheaded redheads redial redialling redirect redirected redirecting redirection redirects rediscover rediscovered rediscoveries rediscovering rediscovers rediscovery rediscussed redisplay redisplayed redistributable redistribute redistributed redistributes redistributing redistribution redistributions redistributive redneck redness redo redoing redolent redone redouble redoubled redoubling redoubt redoubtable redoubts redound redounded redox redraft redrafted redrafting redraw redrawing redrawn redraws redress redressed redressing reds redsea redshift redshifts redstarts redtape reduce reduced reducer reducers reduces reducibility reducible reducing reduction reductionism reductionist reductionists reductions reductive redundancies redundancy redundant redundantly redwood reed reeds reef reefed reefing reefs reek reeked reeking reeks reel reelects reeled reeling reels ref refer referable referee refereed refereeing referees reference referenced referencer references referencing referenda referendum referendums referent referential referentially referents referral referrals referred referring refers refile refiled refiling refill refillable refilled refilling refillings refills refinance refinanced refinancing refine refined refinement refinements refiner refineries refiners refinery refines refining refinish refit refits refitted refitting reflation reflect reflectance reflected reflecting reflection reflectional reflections reflective reflectively reflectiveness reflectivity reflector reflectors reflects reflex reflexes reflexion reflexions reflexive reflexively reflexiveness reflexivity reflexology refloat reflooring reflux refluxed refluxing refocus refocused refocuses refocusing refocussed refocusses refocussing refolded refolding reforestation reform reformable reformat reformation reformations reformative reformatted reformatting reformed reformer reformers reforming reformist reformists reforms reformulate reformulated reformulates reformulating reformulation reformulations refract refracted refracting refraction refractions refractive refractors refractory refracts refrain refrained refraining refrains refreeze refresh refreshable refreshed refresher refreshes refreshing refreshingly refreshment refreshments refrigerant refrigerants refrigerate refrigerated refrigeration refrigerator refrigerators refs refuel refuelled refuelling refuels refuge refugee refugees refuges refund refundable refunded refunding refunds refurbish refurbished refurbishing refurbishment refurbishments refusal refusals refuse refused refuseniks refuses refusing refutable refutation refutations refute refuted refutes refuting regain regained regaining regains regal regale regaled regales regalia regaling regality regally regard regarded regarding regardless regards regatta regattas regelate regency regenerate regenerated regenerates regenerating regeneration regenerations regenerative regent regents reggae regicide regime regimen regimens regiment regimental regimentation regimented regiments regimes regina reginas region regional regionalisation regionalism regionally regions register registered registering registers registrable registrar registrars registration registrations registries registry regrading regress regressed regresses regressing regression regressions regressive regret regretful regretfully regrets regrettable regrettably regretted regretting regroup regrouped regrouping regrow regrowth regular regularisation regularise regularised regularities regularity regularly regulars regulate regulated regulates regulating regulation regulations regulative regulator regulators regulatory regurgitate regurgitated regurgitating regurgitation rehabilitate rehabilitated rehabilitating rehabilitation rehash rehashed rehashes rehashing reheard rehearing rehears rehearsal rehearsals rehearse rehearsed rehearses rehearsing reheat reheated reheating reheats rehouse rehoused rehousing rehydrate reich reification reify reign reigned reigning reigns reimburse reimbursed reimbursement reimburses reimbursing reimplementation reimplemented reimplementing reimporting reimpose reimposed rein reincarnate reincarnated reincarnating reincarnation reincarnations reindeer reined reinfection reinforce reinforced reinforcement reinforcements reinforces reinforcing reining reinitialisation reinitialise reinitialised reinitialising reins reinsert reinserted reinstall reinstalled reinstalling reinstate reinstated reinstatement reinstates reinstating reinsurance reintegration reinterpret reinterpretation reinterpreted reinterpreting reintroduce reintroduced reintroduces reintroducing reintroduction reintroductions reinvent reinvented reinventing reinvention reinventions reinvents reinvest reinvested reinvestigation reinvestment reinvigorate reinvigorated reissue reissued reissues reissuing reiterate reiterated reiterates reiterating reiteration reject rejected rejecting rejection rejections rejects rejoice rejoiced rejoices rejoicing rejoicings rejoin rejoinder rejoinders rejoined rejoining rejoins rejustified rejuvenate rejuvenated rejuvenating rejuvenation rejuvenations rejuvenatory rekindle rekindled relabel relabelled relabelling relabellings relaid relapse relapsed relapses relapsing relate related relatedness relates relating relation relational relationally relations relationship relationships relative relatively relatives relativism relativist relativistic relativistically relativists relativity relator relaunch relaunched relaunching relax relaxant relaxants relaxation relaxations relaxed relaxes relaxing relaxingly relay relayed relaying relays relearn relearning releasable release released releases releasing relegate relegated relegates relegating relegation relent relented relenting relentless relentlessly relentlessness relents relevance relevancy relevant relevantly reliabilities reliability reliable reliably reliance reliant relic relics relict relicts relied relief reliefs relies relieve relieved relieves relieving relight relighting religion religions religiosity religious religiously religiousness relined relink relinked relinking relinquish relinquished relinquishes relinquishing reliquaries reliquary relish relished relishes relishing relit relive relived relives reliving reload reloaded reloading reloads relocatable relocate relocated relocates relocating relocation relocations relocked reluctance reluctant reluctantly rely relying rem remade remain remainder remaindered remaindering remainders remained remaining remains remake remakes remaking remand remanded remands remap remaps remark remarkable remarkably remarked remarking remarks remarriage remarried remarry remaster remastered remastering remasters rematch rematching rematerialised remediable remedial remedied remedies remedy remedying remember remembered remembering remembers remembrance remembrances remind reminded reminder reminders reminding reminds reminisce reminisced reminiscence reminiscences reminiscent reminiscently reminisces reminiscing remiss remission remissions remit remits remittal remittance remittances remitted remitting remix remixed remixes remnant remnants remodel remodelled remodelling remonstrance remonstrate remonstrated remonstrating remonstration remonstrations remorse remorseful remorsefully remorseless remorselessly remote remotely remoteness remoter remotest remould remount remounted remounts removable removal removals remove removed remover removers removes removing remunerate remunerated remuneration remunerative remus renaissance renal rename renamed renames renaming render rendered rendering renderings renders rendezvous rendezvoused rending rendition renditions rends renegade renegades renege reneged reneging renegotiate renegotiated renegotiating renegotiation renew renewable renewal renewals renewed renewing renews renormalisation renounce renounced renouncement renounces renouncing renovate renovated renovating renovation renovations renown renowned rent rental rentals rented renter renters rentiers renting rents renumber renumbered renumbering renunciation renunciations reoccupation reoccupied reoccupy reoccupying reoccur reopen reopened reopening reopens reorder reordered reordering reorders reorganisation reorganisations reorganise reorganised reorganises reorganising reorientated reorientates reorientation rep repack repackage repackaged repacked repacking repaid repaint repainted repainting repair repairable repaired repairer repairers repairing repairman repairs repaper reparation reparations repartee repartition repartitioned repartitioning repast repasts repatriate repatriated repatriating repatriation repatriations repay repayable repaying repayment repayments repays repeal repealed repealing repeals repeat repeatability repeatable repeatably repeated repeatedly repeater repeaters repeating repeats repel repelled repellent repelling repellingly repels repent repentance repentant repentantly repented repenting repents repercussion repercussions repertoire repertoires repertory repetition repetitions repetitious repetitive repetitively repetitiveness rephrase rephrased rephrases rephrasing repine repined repining replace replaceable replaced replacement replacements replaces replacing replanning replant replanted replanting replay replayed replaying replays replenish replenished replenishing replenishment replete replica replicable replicas replicate replicated replicates replicating replication replications replicator replicators replied replier repliers replies replotted replug replugged replugging reply replying repopulate repopulated report reportable reportage reported reportedly reporter reporters reporting reports repose reposed reposes reposing reposition repositioned repositioning repositions repositories repository repossess repossessed repossessing repossession repossessions reprehend reprehensible represent representable representation representational representations representative representativeness representatives represented representing represents repress repressed represses repressing repression repressions repressive repressively reprieve reprieved reprimand reprimanded reprimanding reprimands reprint reprinted reprinting reprints reprisal reprisals reprise reproach reproached reproaches reproachful reproachfully reproachfulness reproaching reprobate reprobates reprocess reprocessed reprocessing reproduce reproduced reproduces reproducibility reproducible reproducibly reproducing reproduction reproductions reproductive reproductively reprogram reprogrammable reprogramme reprogrammed reprogramming reprojected reproof reproofs reprove reproved reprovingly reps reptile reptiles reptilian reptilians republic republican republicanism republicans republication republics republish republished republishes republishing repudiate repudiated repudiates repudiating repudiation repugnance repugnant repulse repulsed repulsing repulsion repulsions repulsive repulsively repulsiveness repurchase reputable reputably reputation reputations repute reputed reputedly reputes request requested requester requesting requests requiem requiems require required requirement requirements requires requiring requisite requisites requisition requisitioned requisitioning requisitions requital requite requited reran reread rereading rereads reregistration rerolled reroute rerouted rerouteing reroutes rerouting rerun rerunning reruns resale rescale rescaled rescales rescaling rescan rescanned rescanning rescans reschedule rescheduled rescheduling rescind rescinded rescinding rescue rescued rescuer rescuers rescues rescuing resea resealed research researched researcher researchers researches researching reseated reseeding reselect reselected reselection resell reseller resellers reselling resemblance resemblances resemble resembled resembles resembling resend resending resent resented resentful resentfully resenting resentment resentments resents reservation reservations reserve reserved reserver reserves reserving reservists reservoir reservoirs reset resets resettable resetting resettle resettled resettlement resettling reshape reshaped reshapes reshaping resharpen resharpened resharpening reshow reshowing reshuffle reshuffled reshuffles reshuffling reside resided residence residences residency resident residential residents resides residing residual residuals residuary residue residues residuum resign resignal resignation resignations resigned resignedly resigning resigns resilience resilient resin resinous resins resiny resist resistance resistances resistant resisted resistible resisting resistive resistively resistivity resistor resistors resists resit resiting resits resize resizing resold resolute resolutely resolution resolutions resolvability resolvable resolve resolved resolvent resolver resolvers resolves resolving resonance resonances resonant resonantly resonate resonated resonates resonating resonator resonators resort resorted resorting resorts resound resounded resounding resoundingly resounds resource resourced resourceful resourcefulness resources resourcing respecified respecify respect respectability respectable respectably respected respectful respectfully respecting respective respectively respects respiration respirator respirators respiratory respire respired respite resplendent respond responded respondent respondents responder responders responding responds response responses responsibilities responsibility responsible responsibly responsive responsively responsiveness respray resprayed resprays rest restart restartable restarted restarting restarts restate restated restatement restates restating restaurant restaurants restaurateur restaurateurs rested restful restfulness resting restitution restive restiveness restless restlessly restlessness restock restocking restoration restorations restorative restore restored restorer restorers restores restoring restrain restrained restraining restrains restraint restraints restrict restricted restricting restriction restrictions restrictive restrictively restricts restroom restructure restructured restructures restructuring rests restyled resubmission resubmissions resubmit resubmits resubmitted resubmitting resubstitute result resultant resulted resulting results resume resumed resumes resuming resumption resupply resurface resurfaced resurfacing resurgence resurgent resurrect resurrected resurrecting resurrection resurrects resuscitate resuscitated resuscitating resuscitation retail retailed retailer retailers retailing retails retain retained retainer retainers retaining retains retake retaken retakes retaking retaliate retaliated retaliates retaliating retaliation retaliatory retard retardant retardation retarded retarding retards retch retched retching retell retelling retention retentions retentive retentiveness retentivity retest retested retesting retests rethink rethinking rethought reticence reticent reticular reticulated reticulation reticule reticules reticulum retied retina retinal retinas retinitis retinue retinues retire retired retiree retirement retirements retires retiring retitle retitled retitling retold retook retort retorted retorting retorts retouch retouched retouching retrace retraced retraces retracing retract retractable retracted retracting retraction retractions retracts retrain retrained retraining retral retransmission retransmissions retransmit retransmits retransmitted retransmitting retread retreads retreat retreated retreating retreats retrench retrenchment retrial retribution retributive retried retries retrievable retrieval retrievals retrieve retrieved retriever retrievers retrieves retrieving retro retroactive retroactively retrofit retrofitted retrofitting retrograde retrogressive retrospect retrospection retrospective retrospectively retrospectives retroviruses retry retrying retsina retted retune retuning return returnable returned returnees returning returns retype retyped retypes retyping reunification reunified reunify reunion reunions reunite reunited reunites reuniting reusable reuse reused reuses reusing rev revaluation revaluations revalue revalued revalues revamp revamped revamping revamps revanchist reveal revealable revealed revealing revealingly reveals reveille revel revelation revelations revelatory revelled reveller revellers revelling revelries revelry revels revenant revenge revenged revengeful revenges revenging revenue revenues reverberant reverberate reverberated reverberates reverberating reverberation reverberations revere revered reverence reverend reverent reverential reverentially reverently reveres reverie reveries revering reversal reversals reverse reversed reverser reverses reversibility reversible reversibly reversing reversion revert reverted reverting reverts review reviewable reviewed reviewer reviewers reviewing reviews revile reviled reviling revisable revisal revise revised reviser revises revising revision revisionary revisionism revisionist revisionists revisions revisit revisited revisiting revisits revitalisation revitalise revitalised revitalising revival revivalism revivalist revivalists revivals revive revived reviver revives revivify revivifying reviving revocable revocation revocations revoke revoked revoker revokers revokes revoking revolt revolted revolting revoltingly revolts revolution revolutionaries revolutionary revolutionise revolutionised revolutionises revolutionising revolutions revolve revolved revolver revolvers revolves revolving revs revue revues revulsion revved revving reward rewarded rewarding rewards reweighed rewind rewindable rewinding rewinds rewire rewired rewiring reword reworded rewording rewordings rework reworked reworking reworks rewound rewrap rewritable rewrite rewrites rewriting rewritings rewritten rewrote rhapsodic rhapsodical rhapsodies rhapsody rhea rhein rhenium rheological rheology rheostat rhesus rhetoric rhetorical rhetorically rhetorician rhetoricians rheumatic rheumatics rheumatism rheumatoid rheumatology rhine rhinestone rhinitis rhino rhinoceros rhinoceroses rhizome rho rhodesia rhodium rhododendron rhododendrons rhombic rhomboids rhombus rhombuses rhubarb rhumbas rhyme rhymed rhymer rhymes rhyming rhythm rhythmic rhythmical rhythmically rhythms ria rial rials rialto rib ribald ribaldry ribbed ribbing ribbon ribbons ribcage riboflavin ribonucleic ribosomal ribosome ribosomes ribs rice rich richer riches richest richly richness rick rickets rickety ricking ricks ricksha rickshas rickshaw rickshaws ricochet ricocheted ricocheting rid riddance ridden ridding riddle riddled riddles riddling ride rider riders rides ridge ridged ridges ridicule ridiculed ridicules ridiculing ridiculous ridiculously ridiculousness riding ridings rids rife riff riffle riffled riffs rifle rifled rifleman riflemen rifles rifling riflings rift rifting rifts rig rigged rigger riggers rigging right righted righten righteous righteously righteousness righter rightful rightfully righthand righthanded righthandedness righthander righthanders righting rightist rightly rightminded rightmost rightness rights rightthinking rightward rightwards rightwing rightwinger rightwingers rigid rigidifies rigidify rigidities rigidity rigidly rigmarole rigor rigorous rigorously rigour rigours rigs rile riled riles riling rill rills rim rime rimless rimmed rims rind rinds ring ringed ringer ringers ringing ringingly ringleader ringleaders ringless ringlet ringlets ringmaster rings ringside ringworm rink rinks rinse rinsed rinses rinsing riot rioted rioter rioters rioting riotous riotously riots rip ripcord ripe ripely ripen ripened ripeness ripening ripens riper ripest riping ripoff riposte riposted ripostes ripped ripper rippers ripping ripple rippled ripples rippling rips ripstop rise risen riser risers rises risible rising risings risk risked riskier riskiest riskiness risking risks risky risotto risque rissole rissoles rite rites ritual ritualised ritualistic ritualistically ritually rituals rival rivalled rivalling rivalries rivalry rivals riven river riverine rivers riverside rivet riveted riveter riveting rivetingly rivets riviera rivulet rivulets roach roaches road roadblock roadblocks roadhouse roadmap roads roadshow roadshows roadside roadsides roadsigns roadster roadsweepers roadway roadways roadworks roadworthy roam roamed roamer roaming roams roan roar roared roarer roaring roars roast roasted roaster roasting roasts rob robbed robber robberies robbers robbery robbing robe robed robes robin robins robot robotic robotics robots robs robust robustly robustness roc rock rockbottom rocked rocker rockers rockery rocket rocketed rocketing rocketry rockets rockfall rockfalls rockier rockiest rocking rocks rocksolid rocky rococo rocs rod rode rodent rodents rodeo rodeos rods roe roebuck roentgen roes rogue roguery rogues roguish roguishly roguishness roister roistering role roles roll rollcall rolled roller rollercoaster rollers rollerskating rollicking rolling rolls rolypoly rom roman romance romanced romancer romances romancing romans romantic romantically romanticised romanticises romanticising romanticism romantics romany rome rommel romp romped romper romping romps romulus rondavel roo roof roofed roofer roofgarden roofing roofings roofless roofs rooftop rooftops rooibos rook rookeries rookery rookies rooks room roomful roomier roomiest roommate rooms roomy roost roosted rooster roosters roosting roosts root rooted rooting rootings rootless roots rope roped ropes roping rosaries rosary rose rosebud rosebuds rosebush rosemary roses rosette rosettes rosewood rosier rosiest rosily rosin roster rostering rosters rostrum rostrums rosy rot rota rotary rotas rotatable rotate rotated rotates rotating rotation rotational rotationally rotations rotator rotators rotatory rote rotor rotors rots rotted rotten rottenly rottenness rotter rotting rotund rotunda rotundity rouble roubles rouge rouged rouges rough roughage roughed roughen roughened roughens rougher roughest roughie roughing roughly roughness roughs roughshod roulette round roundabout roundabouts rounded roundel roundels rounder rounders roundest roundhouse rounding roundish roundly roundness rounds roundtheclock roundup roundups rouse roused rouses rousing rout route routed routeing router routers routes routine routinely routines routing routs rove roved rover rovers roves roving rovings row rowboat rowboats rowdier rowdiest rowdily rowdiness rowdy rowdyism rowed rower rowers rowing rows royal royalist royalists royally royals royalties royalty ruanda rub rubbed rubber rubberised rubbers rubberstamp rubberstamped rubberstamping rubbery rubbing rubbings rubbish rubbished rubbishes rubbishing rubbishy rubble rubbles rubella rubicon rubicund rubidium rubies rubric rubs ruby ruck rucks rucksack rucksacks ruction ructions rudder rudderless rudders ruddiness ruddy rude rudely rudeness ruder rudest rudimentary rudiments rue rueful ruefully ruefulness rues ruff ruffian ruffians ruffle ruffled ruffles ruffling ruffs rug rugby rugged ruggedly ruggedness rugs ruin ruination ruinations ruined ruiner ruining ruinous ruinously ruins rule rulebook rulebooks ruled ruler rulers rules ruling rulings rum rumania rumba rumbas rumble rumbled rumbles rumbling rumblings rumbustious rumen ruminant ruminants ruminate ruminated ruminating rumination ruminations ruminative ruminatively rummage rummaged rummages rummaging rummy rumour rumoured rumours rump rumple rumpled rumpling rumps rumpus rumpuses run runaway rundown rune runes rung rungs runnable runner runners runnersup runnerup runnier runniest running runny runofthemill runs runt runts runway runways rupee rupees rupert rupture ruptured ruptures rupturing rural ruralist rurally ruse rush rushed rushes rushhour rushier rushing rusk rusks russet russia russian rust rusted rustic rustically rusticate rusticated rusticity rustics rustier rustiest rustiness rusting rustle rustled rustler rustlers rustles rustling rustproof rusts rusty rut ruth ruthless ruthlessly ruthlessness ruts rutted rwanda rye sabbat sabbath sabbaths sabbatical sabbaticals saber sable sables sabotage sabotaged sabotages sabotaging saboteur saboteurs sabra sabras sabre sabres sabretoothed sac saccharides saccharin saccharine sacerdotal sachet sachets sack sackcloth sacked sackful sackfuls sacking sacks sacral sacrament sacramental sacraments sacred sacredly sacredness sacrifice sacrificed sacrifices sacrificial sacrificing sacrilege sacrilegious sacristy sacrosanct sacrum sacs sad sadden saddened saddening saddens sadder saddest saddle saddlebag saddlebags saddled saddler saddlers saddles saddling sadism sadist sadistic sadistically sadists sadly sadness sadomasochism sadomasochistic sadsack safari safaris safe safeguard safeguarded safeguarding safeguards safely safeness safer safes safest safeties safety saffron sag saga sagacious sagaciously sagacity sagas sage sagely sages sagest sagged sagging sago sags sahara sahib said saigon sail sailcloth sailed sailer sailing sailings sailmaker sailor sailors sails saint sainted sainthood saintlier saintliest saintliness saintly saints saipan sake sakes saki salaam salacious salad salads salamander salamanders salami salamis salaried salaries salary sale saleability saleable salem sales salesgirl salesman salesmanship salesmen salespeople salesperson saleswoman salicylic salience salient saline salinity saliva salivary salivas salivate salivating salivation salivations sallied sallies sallow sally sallying salmon salmonella salmons salome salon salons saloon saloons salsa salt salted saltier saltiest saltiness saltpetre salts saltwater salty salubrious salubrity salutary salutation salutations salute saluted salutes saluting salvage salvageable salvaged salvager salvages salvaging salvation salve salved salver salvers salving salvo sam samba sambas same sameness samizdat samoa samosas samovar sampan sample sampled sampler samplers samples sampling samplings samurai san sanatorium sanctification sanctified sanctifies sanctify sanctifying sanctimonious sanction sanctioned sanctioning sanctions sanctity sanctuaries sanctuary sanctum sand sandal sandalled sandals sandalwood sandbag sandbagged sandbags sandbank sandbanks sandcastle sandcastles sanddune sanded sander sandier sandiest sanding sandman sandpaper sandpapering sandpiper sandpipers sandpit sands sandstone sandstones sandwich sandwiched sandwiches sandwiching sandy sane sanely saner sanest sang sanguine sanitary sanitation sanitise sanitised sanitiser sanitisers sanity sank sanserif sanskrit santiago sap sapient sapling saplings sapped sapper sappers sapphire sapphires sapping saps sarcasm sarcasms sarcastic sarcastically sarcoma sarcophagi sarcophagus sardine sardines sardinia sardonic sardonically sarge sari saris sarong sartorial sartorially sash sashes sat satan satanic satanically satanism satchel satchels sated satellite satellites satiate satiated satiation satin sating satins satinwood satiny satire satires satiric satirical satirically satirise satirised satirises satirising satirist satirists satisfaction satisfactions satisfactorily satisfactory satisfiable satisfied satisfies satisfy satisfying satisfyingly satrap satraps satsumas saturate saturated saturates saturating saturation saturday saturn saturnalia saturnine satyr satyric satyrs sauce saucepan saucepans saucer saucers sauces saucier sauciest saucily sauciness saucy saudi saudis sauerkraut sauna saunas saunter sauntered sauntering saunters sausage sausages saute savage savaged savagely savagery savages savaging savanna savannah savant savants save saved saveloy saver savers saves saving savings saviour saviours savour savoured savouring savours savoury savvy saw sawdust sawed sawing sawmill sawmills sawn saws sawtooth sawyer sawyers saxon saxons saxony saxophone saxophones saxophonist say saying sayings says scab scabbard scabbards scabbed scabby scabies scabs scaffold scaffolding scaffolds scalability scalable scalar scalars scald scalded scalding scalds scale scaled scalene scales scaling scallop scalloped scallops scalp scalped scalpel scalpels scalping scalps scaly scam scamp scamped scamper scampered scampering scampi scams scan scandal scandalise scandalised scandalous scandalously scandals scanned scanner scanners scanning scans scansion scant scantier scantiest scantily scantiness scanty scape scapegoat scapegoats scapula scar scarab scarce scarcely scarceness scarcer scarcest scarcities scarcity scare scarecrow scarecrows scared scaremonger scaremongering scares scarf scarfs scarier scariest scarified scarify scarifying scarily scaring scarlet scarlets scarp scarred scarring scars scarves scary scat scathe scathed scathing scathingly scatological scatter scattered scatterer scatterers scattering scatterings scatters scavenge scavenged scavenger scavengers scavenging scenario scene scenery scenes scenic scenically scent scented scenting scentless scents sceptic sceptical sceptically scepticism sceptics sceptre sceptred sceptres schedule scheduled scheduler schedulers schedules scheduling schema schemas schemata schematic schematically schematics scheme schemed schemer schemes scheming scherzi scherzo schism schismatic schismatics schisms schist schistosomiasis schists schizoid schizophrenia schizophrenic schizophrenically schizophrenics schmalz schnapps scholar scholarly scholars scholarship scholarships scholastic scholasticism school schoolboy schoolboys schoolchild schoolchildren schooldays schooled schoolgirl schoolgirls schoolhouse schooling schoolmaster schoolmasters schoolmates schoolmistress schoolroom schools schoolteacher schoolteachers schooner schooners schwa schwas sciatica science sciences scientific scientifically scientist scientists scifi scimitar scimitars scintigraphy scintillate scintillated scintillating scintillation scintillations scintillator scintillators scissor scissored scissors sclerosis scoff scoffed scoffing scold scolded scolder scolding scolds scone scones scoop scooped scooper scoopful scooping scoops scoot scooter scooters scooting scoots scope scopes scorch scorched scorcher scorches scorching score scoreboard scoreboards scorecard scorecards scored scoreless scoreline scorer scorers scores scoring scorn scorned scornful scornfully scorning scorns scorpion scorpions scot scotch scotched scotches scotfree scotland scots scotsman scottish scoundrel scoundrels scour scoured scourge scourged scourges scourging scouring scours scout scouted scouting scoutmaster scoutmasters scouts scowl scowled scowling scowls scrabble scrabbled scrabbling scram scramble scrambled scrambler scramblers scrambles scrambling scrams scrap scrapbook scrapbooks scrape scraped scraper scrapers scrapes scrapie scraping scrapings scrapped scrappier scrappiest scrapping scrappy scraps scrapyard scrapyards scratch scratched scratches scratchier scratchiest scratchiness scratching scratchings scratchy scrawl scrawled scrawling scrawls scrawnier scrawniest scrawny scream screamed screamer screamers screaming screamingly screams scree screech screeched screeches screechier screechiest screeching screechy screed screeds screen screened screening screenings screenplay screenplays screens screenwriter screw screwdriver screwdrivers screwed screwing screws screwy scribal scribble scribbled scribbler scribblers scribbles scribbling scribblings scribe scribed scribes scribing scrimped script scripted scripting scriptorium scripts scriptural scripture scriptures scriptwriter scriptwriters scriptwriting scroll scrollable scrolled scrolling scrolls scrooge scrooges scrotum scrub scrubbed scrubber scrubbers scrubbing scrubby scrubland scrubs scruff scruffier scruffy scrum scrumhalf scrummage scrummaging scrums scrunched scruple scruples scrupulous scrupulously scrupulousness scrutineers scrutinies scrutinise scrutinised scrutinises scrutinising scrutiny scuba scubas scud scudded scudding scuds scuff scuffed scuffing scuffle scuffled scuffles scuffling scull sculled sculler sculleries scullery sculling sculls sculpt sculpted sculpting sculptor sculptors sculptress sculptural sculpture sculptured sculptures scum scupper scuppered scurried scurries scurrilous scurry scurrying scurryings scurvy scuttle scuttled scuttles scuttling scythe scythed scythes scything sea seabed seabird seabirds seaboard seaborne seacow seacows seafarer seafarers seafaring seafood seafront seagod seagoing seagreen seagull seagulls seal sealant sealants sealed sealer sealers sealing sealion seals seam seamail seaman seamanship seamed seamen seamier seamless seamlessly seams seamstress seamstresses seamy seance seances seaplane seaplanes seaport seaports sear search searched searcher searchers searches searching searchingly searchlight searchlights seared searing sears seas seascape seascapes seashells seashore seashores seasick seasickness seaside season seasonable seasonably seasonal seasonality seasonally seasoned seasoner seasoning seasons seat seated seating seatings seats seattle seaward seawards seawater seaweed seaweeds seaworthy sebaceous sec secant secateurs secede seceded secedes seceding secession secessionist secessionists secessions seclude secluded seclusion second secondaries secondarily secondary secondbest secondclass seconded seconder seconders secondhand seconding secondly secondment secondments secondrate seconds secrecy secret secretarial secretariat secretariats secretaries secretary secretaryship secrete secreted secretes secreting secretion secretions secretive secretively secretiveness secretly secretory secrets sect sectarian sectarianism section sectional sectioned sectioning sections sector sectoral sectored sectors sects secular secularisation secularised secularism secularist secularists secure secured securely securer secures securest securing securities security sedan sedate sedated sedately sedateness sedater sedates sedating sedation sedative sedatives sedentary sedge sedges sediment sedimentary sedimentation sediments sedition seditious seduce seduced seducer seducers seduces seducing seduction seductions seductive seductively seductiveness sedulously see seeable seed seedbed seeded seeder seedier seediest seediness seeding seedless seedling seedlings seeds seedy seeing seeings seek seeker seekers seeking seeks seem seemed seeming seemingly seemlier seemliest seemly seems seen seep seepage seeped seeping seeps seer seers sees seesaw seesaws seethe seethed seethes seething seethrough segment segmental segmentation segmented segmenting segments segregate segregated segregates segregating segregation seine seisin seismic seismogram seismograph seismological seismologist seismologists seismology seismometer seismometers seize seized seizer seizes seizing seizure seizures seldom select selectable selected selectee selecting selection selections selective selectively selectivity selector selectors selects selenium selenology self selfcentred selfcentredness selfconfidence selfconfident selfconscious selfconsciously selfconsciousness selfcontrol selfcontrolled selfdefence selfdestruct selfdestructed selfdestructing selfdestruction selfdestructive selfdestructs selfdiscipline selfemployed selfesteem selfevident selfgoverning selfgovernment selfinflicted selfinterest selfish selfishly selfishness selfless selflessly selfmade selfpity selfportrait selfportraits selfrespect selfrespecting selfrestraint selfrighteous selfrighteously selfrighteousness selfsacrifice selfsacrificing selfsame selfsupporting selftaught sell sellable seller sellers selling sells selves semantic semantically semantics semaphore semaphores semaphoring semblance semblances semen semester semesters semi semicircle semicircular semicolon semicolons semiconducting semiconductor semiconductors semiconscious semidetached semifinal semifinalist semifinalists semifinals seminar seminaries seminars seminary semite semites semitic semitics sen senate senates senator senatorial senators send sender senders sending sends senegal senhor senhors senile senility senior seniority seniors senora senoritas sensation sensational sensationalised sensationalism sensationalist sensationalistic sensationally sensations sense sensed senseless senselessly senselessness senses sensibilities sensibility sensible sensibleness sensibly sensing sensings sensitisation sensitised sensitisers sensitive sensitively sensitiveness sensitivities sensitivity sensor sensors sensory sensual sensuality sensually sensuous sensuously sensuousness sent sentence sentenced sentences sentencing sentential sententious sententiously sentience sentient sentiment sentimental sentimentalised sentimentalism sentimentalist sentimentality sentimentally sentiments sentinel sentinels sentries sentry seoul separability separable separate separated separately separateness separates separating separation separations separatism separatist separatists separator separators sepia september septet septets septic septicaemia sepulchral sepulchre sepulchres sequel sequels sequence sequenced sequencer sequencers sequences sequencing sequent sequential sequentially sequestered sequestrated sequestration sequin sequinned sequins sequoia seraglio serai seraphic seraphically seraphim seraphs serenade serenader serenades serenading serenata serendipitous serendipitously serendipity serene serenely serener serenest serenity serf serfdom serfhood serfs serge sergeant sergeants serial serialisation serialisations serialise serialised serialising serially serials series serif serifed serifs serious seriously seriousness sermon sermons serological serology seronegative serotonin serpent serpentine serpents serrate serrated serried serum serums servant servants serve served server servers serves service serviceability serviceable serviced serviceman servicemen services servicing serviette servile servilely servility serving servings servitude sesame sesotho sessile session sessions set setback setbacks seth sets setswana settee settees setter setters setting settings settle settled settlement settlements settler settlers settles settling setts setup seven sevenfold sevenpence sevens seventeen seventeenth seventh seventies seventieth seventy sever severable several severally severance severe severed severely severer severest severing severity severs sew sewage sewed sewer sewerage sewerrat sewers sewing sewings sewn sews sex sexed sexes sexier sexiest sexily sexiness sexing sexism sexist sexists sexless sexologists sexology sextant sextants sextet sextets sexton sextons sextuplet sextuplets sexual sexualities sexuality sexually sexy shabbier shabbiest shabbily shabbiness shabby shack shackle shackled shackles shacks shade shaded shadeless shades shadier shadiest shadily shading shadings shadow shadowed shadowing shadowless shadows shadowy shady shaft shafted shafting shafts shag shagged shaggiest shaggy shags shah shahs shakable shake shakeable shakedown shaken shaker shakers shakes shakeup shakeups shakier shakiest shakily shaking shaky shale shall shallot shallots shallow shallower shallowest shallowly shallowness shallows sham shaman shamanic shamanism shamanistic shamans shamble shambled shambles shambling shame shamed shamefaced shamefacedly shameful shamefully shameless shamelessly shamelessness shames shaming shammed shamming shampoo shampooed shampooing shampoos shamrock shams shandy shank shanks shanties shanty shape shaped shapeless shapelier shapeliest shapely shaper shapers shapes shaping sharable shard shards share shareable shared shareholder shareholders shareholding shareholdings sharer shares shareware sharing shark sharks sharp sharpen sharpened sharpener sharpeners sharpening sharpens sharper sharpest sharply sharpness sharps shatter shattered shattering shatteringly shatterproof shatters shave shaved shaven shaver shavers shaves shaving shavings shaw shawl shawls she sheaf shear sheared shearer shearers shearing shears shearwater shearwaters sheath sheathe sheathed sheathing sheaths sheaves shed shedding sheds sheen sheep sheepdog sheepdogs sheepish sheepishly sheepishness sheepskin sheepskins sheer sheered sheerest sheerness sheet sheeted sheeting sheets sheik sheikh sheikhs sheiks shekel shekels shelf shell shellac shelled shellfire shellfish shelling shells shelter sheltered sheltering shelters shelve shelved shelves shelving shepherd shepherded shepherdess shepherding shepherds sherbet sherds sheriff sheriffs sherlock sherries sherry shetland shibboleth shibboleths shied shield shielded shielding shields shielings shies shift shifted shifter shifters shiftier shiftily shiftiness shifting shiftless shifts shifty shilling shimmer shimmered shimmering shimmers shin shinbone shindig shine shined shiner shines shingle shingles shinier shiniest shining shinned shinning shins shiny ship shipboard shipborne shipbuilder shipbuilders shipbuilding shipload shiploads shipmate shipmates shipment shipments shipowner shipowners shippable shipped shipping ships shipshape shipwreck shipwrecked shipwrecks shipwright shipwrights shipyard shipyards shire shires shirk shirked shirking shirt shirtless shirts shirtsleeves shiver shivered shivering shiveringly shivers shivery shoal shoals shock shocked shocker shockers shocking shockingly shocks shod shoddier shoddiest shoddily shoddiness shoddy shoe shoebox shoed shoehorn shoeing shoelace shoelaces shoeless shoemaker shoemakers shoes shoestring shoestrings shogun shoguns shone shoo shooed shooing shook shoot shooter shooters shooting shootings shoots shop shopfront shopfronts shopkeeper shopkeepers shopkeeping shoplift shoplifted shoplifter shoplifters shoplifting shopped shopper shoppers shopping shops shore shored shoreline shorelines shores shoreward shorewards shoring shorn short shortage shortages shortbread shortcircuit shortcircuited shortcircuiting shortcoming shortcomings shortcrust shortcut shortcuts shorted shorten shortened shortening shortens shorter shortest shortfall shortfalls shorthand shorting shortish shortlist shortlisted shortlisting shortlived shortly shortness shorts shortsighted shortsightedly shortsightedness shortstaffed shorttempered shortterm shortwinded shorty shot shotgun shotguns shots should shoulder shouldered shouldering shoulders shout shouted shouter shouters shouting shouts shove shoved shovel shovelful shovelled shoveller shovelling shovels shoves shoving show showcase showcases showcasing showdown showed shower showered showering showers showery showgirl showground showier showiest showing showings showjumpers showman showmanship showmen shown showoff showpiece showpieces showplace showroom showrooms shows showy shrank shrapnel shred shredded shredder shredders shredding shreds shrew shrewd shrewder shrewdest shrewdly shrewdness shrews shriek shrieked shrieker shriekers shrieking shrieks shrift shrill shrilled shrillest shrillness shrills shrilly shrimp shrimps shrine shrines shrink shrinkable shrinkage shrinking shrinkingly shrinks shrivel shrivelled shrivelling shrivels shroud shrouded shrouding shrouds shrub shrubberies shrubbery shrubby shrubs shrug shrugged shrugging shrugs shrunk shrunken shudder shuddered shuddering shudders shuffle shuffled shuffler shufflers shuffles shuffling shun shunned shunning shuns shunt shunted shunter shunters shunting shunts shushed shut shutdown shutdowns shuts shutter shuttered shuttering shutters shutting shuttle shuttlecock shuttlecocks shuttled shuttles shuttling shutup shy shyer shyest shying shyly shyness siam siamese siberia siberian sibilance sibilancy sibilant sibling siblings sibyl sic sicilian sicily sick sickbay sickbed sicken sickened sickening sickeningly sickens sicker sickest sickle sickles sickliest sickly sickness sicknesses sickroom side sideband sidebands sideboard sideboards sideburns sidecar sided sidekick sidelight sidelights sideline sidelines sidelong sider sidereal sides sideshow sideshows sidestep sidestepped sidestepping sidesteps sideswipes sidetrack sidetracked sidetracking sidewalk sidewards sideways sidewinders siding sidings sidle sidled sidling siege sieges sienna sierra siesta siestas sieve sieved sieves sieving sift sifted sifter sifters sifting siftings sifts sigh sighed sighing sighs sight sighted sightedness sighting sightings sightless sightlessly sightly sights sightsee sightseeing sightseers sigma sigmoid sign signal signalled signaller signallers signalling signally signalman signalmen signals signatories signatory signature signatures signboards signed signer signers signet significance significances significant significantly signification significations signified signifier signifies signify signifying signing signings signor signora signors signpost signposted signposting signposts signs signwriter silage silence silenced silencer silencers silences silencing silent silently silhouette silhouetted silhouettes silica silicate silicates silicon silicone silicosis silk silken silkier silkiest silkily silkiness silklike silks silkworm silkworms silky sillier silliest silliness silly silo silt silted silting silts siltstone silty silver silvered silvering silvers silversmith silversmiths silverware silvery simeon similar similarities similarity similarly simile similes similitude simmer simmered simmering simmers simper simpered simpering simpers simple simpleminded simpler simplest simpleton simpletons simplex simplexes simplicities simplicity simplification simplifications simplified simplifier simplifies simplify simplifying simplism simplistic simplistically simply simulacrum simulate simulated simulates simulating simulation simulations simulator simulators simulcasts simultaneity simultaneous simultaneously sin sinai since sincere sincerely sincerest sincerity sine sinecure sinecures sinecurist sines sinew sinews sinewy sinful sinfully sinfulness sing singable singalong singe singed singeing singer singers singes singing single singlehanded singlehandedly singleminded singlemindedly singlemindedness singleness singles singly sings singsong singular singularisation singularities singularity singularly singulars sinister sinisterly sinistral sink sinkable sinker sinkers sinking sinks sinless sinned sinner sinners sinning sins sinter sinters sinuous sinuously sinus sinuses sinusitis sinusoid sinusoidal sinusoidally sip siphon siphoned siphoning siphons sipped sipper sippers sipping sips sir sire sired siren sirens sires sirius sirloin sirloins sirs sis sisal sissies sissy sister sisterhood sisterinlaw sisterly sisters sistersinlaw sit sitar sitcom sitcoms site sited sites siting sitings sits sitter sitters sitting sittings situate situated situating situation situational situationally situationist situations six sixes sixfold sixpence sixteen sixteenth sixth sixths sixties sixtieth sixty size sizeable sized sizes sizing sizzle sizzled sizzles sizzling sjambok skate skateboard skateboards skated skater skaters skates skating skein skeletal skeleton skeletons skeptic skerries sketch sketchbook sketchbooks sketched sketcher sketches sketchier sketchiest sketchily sketching sketchpad sketchy skew skewed skewer skewered skewers skewness skews ski skid skidded skidding skids skied skier skiers skies skiing skilful skilfully skill skilled skillet skillful skills skim skimmed skimmer skimming skimp skimped skimping skimpy skims skin skincare skindeep skinflint skinhead skinheads skinless skinned skinner skinners skinnier skinniest skinning skinny skins skintight skip skipped skipper skippered skippering skippers skipping skips skirl skirmish skirmishes skirmishing skirt skirted skirting skirts skis skit skits skittish skittishly skittishness skittle skittles skua skuas skulduggery skulk skulked skulking skulks skull skullcap skullduggery skulls skunk skunks sky skydive skydived skydiver skydivers skydives skydiving skyhigh skylark skylarks skylight skylights skyline skylines skyscape skyscraper skyscrapers skyward skywards slab slabs slack slacked slacken slackened slackening slackens slacker slackers slackest slacking slackly slackness slacks slag slags slain slake slaked slalom slaloms slam slammed slamming slams slander slandered slanderer slanderers slandering slanderous slanders slang slanging slant slanted slanting slants slantwise slap slapdash slapped slapper slapping slaps slapstick slash slashed slasher slashes slashing slat slate slated slater slaters slates slating slats slatted slaughter slaughtered slaughterer slaughterhouse slaughterhouses slaughtering slaughterings slaughters slav slave slaved slavedriver slavedrivers slaver slavered slavering slavers slavery slaves slavic slaving slavish slavishly slavs slay slayed slayer slayers slaying slays sleaze sleazier sleaziest sleazy sled sledding sledge sledgehammer sledgehammers sledges sledging sleds sleek sleeker sleekly sleekness sleeks sleep sleeper sleepers sleepier sleepiest sleepily sleepiness sleeping sleepless sleeplessness sleeps sleepwalk sleepwalker sleepwalking sleepwalks sleepy sleet sleets sleeve sleeved sleeveless sleeves sleigh sleighs sleight sleights slender slenderest slenderly slenderness slept sleuth sleuths slew slewed slewing slice sliced slicer slicers slices slicing slicings slick slicked slicker slickest slickly slickness slicks slid slide slided slider sliders slides sliding slight slighted slighter slightest slighting slightingly slightly slights slily slim slime slimes slimier slimiest slimline slimly slimmed slimmer slimmers slimmest slimming slimness slims slimy sling slinging slings slingshot slink slinking slinky slip slippage slipped slipper slipperiness slippers slippery slipping slips slipshod slipstream slipup slipway slit slither slithered slithering slithers slithery slits slitting sliver slivers slob slobber slobbering slobbers slobbery slobs slog slogan slogans slogged slogging slogs sloop slop slope sloped slopes sloping slopped sloppier sloppiest sloppily sloppiness slopping sloppy slops slosh sloshed sloshing slot sloth slothful sloths slots slotted slotting slouch slouched slouches slouching slough sloughed sloughing slovak slovenia slovenliness slovenly slow slowcoaches slowdown slowed slower slowest slowing slowish slowly slowness slowpoke slows sludge sludgy slug sluggard sluggards slugged slugging sluggish sluggishly sluggishness slugs sluice sluiced sluices sluicing slum slumber slumbered slumbering slumbers slumming slump slumped slumping slumps slums slung slunk slur slurp slurped slurping slurps slurred slurring slurry slurs slush slushed slushes slushier slushiest slushy slut sluts sly slyer slyly slyness smack smacked smacker smacking smacks small smaller smallest smallholder smallholders smallholding smallholdings smallish smallminded smallmindedness smallness smallpox smalls smallscale smalltalk smalltime smalltown smart smarted smarten smartened smartening smarter smartest smarting smartly smartness smarts smash smashed smasher smashes smashing smattering smatterings smear smeared smearing smears smegma smell smellable smelled smellier smelliest smelling smells smelly smelt smelted smelter smelters smelting smidgeon smile smiled smiler smilers smiles smiling smilingly smirk smirked smirking smirks smite smith smithereens smiths smithy smiting smitten smock smocks smog smoggy smogs smoke smoked smokeless smoker smokers smokes smokescreen smokestack smokestacks smokier smokiest smokiness smoking smoky smolder smooch smooth smoothed smoother smoothest smoothing smoothly smoothness smooths smoothtongued smote smother smothered smothering smothers smoulder smouldered smouldering smoulders smudge smudged smudges smudgier smudgiest smudging smudgy smug smuggle smuggled smuggler smugglers smuggles smuggling smugly smugness smut smuts smutty snack snacks snaffle snag snagged snagging snags snail snails snake snaked snakepit snakes snakeskin snaking snaky snap snapped snapper snappier snappily snapping snappy snaps snapshot snapshots snare snared snares snaring snarl snarled snarling snarls snatch snatched snatcher snatchers snatches snatching sneak sneaked sneakers sneakier sneakiest sneakily sneaking sneaks sneaky sneer sneered sneering sneeringly sneers sneeze sneezed sneezes sneezing snick snide sniff sniffed sniffer sniffers sniffing sniffle sniffles sniffling sniffly sniffs snifter snigger sniggered sniggering sniggers snip snipe sniper snipers snipes sniping snipped snippet snippets snipping snips snits snivel snivelling snob snobbery snobbish snobbishly snobbishness snobs snoek snooker snoop snooped snooper snoopers snooping snoops snoopy snooze snoozed snoozes snoozing snore snored snorer snorers snores snoring snorkel snorkelling snorkels snort snorted snorting snorts snotty snout snouts snow snowball snowballed snowballing snowballs snowbound snowcapped snowdrift snowdrifts snowdrop snowdrops snowed snowfall snowfalls snowfields snowflake snowflakes snowier snowiest snowing snowline snowman snowmen snowplough snowploughs snows snowstorm snowstorms snowwhite snowy snub snubbed snubbing snubnosed snubs snuff snuffbox snuffed snuffing snuffle snuffled snuffles snuffling snuffs snug snugger snuggle snuggled snuggles snuggling snugly snugness so soak soaked soaker soakers soaking soakings soaks soandso soap soapbox soaped soapier soapiest soaping soaps soapy soar soared soaring soaringly soars sob sobbed sobbing sobbings sober sobered soberer sobering soberly sobers sobriety sobriquet sobs socalled soccer sociability sociable sociably social socialisation socialise socialised socialising socialism socialist socialistic socialists socialite socially socials societal societies society sociobiology sociocultural socioeconomic sociolinguistic sociolinguistics sociolinguists sociological sociologically sociologist sociologists sociology sociopolitical sock socked socket sockets socking socks socrates sod soda sodas sodded sodden soddy sodium sodom sodomise sodomised sodomising sodomite sodomites sodomy sods sofa sofas soffit soft softball softboiled soften softened softener softeners softening softens softer softest softhearted softie softish softly softness softspoken software softwood softy soggier soggiest soggy soh soil soiled soiling soilings soils soiree sojourn sojourned sojourner sojourners sojourning sojourns solace solaces solanum solar solaria solarium sold solder soldered soldering solders soldier soldiered soldiering soldierly soldiers soldiery sole solecism solecisms solely solemn solemnities solemnity solemnly solenoid solenoidal solenoids soler soles solfa solicit solicitation solicitations solicited soliciting solicitor solicitors solicitous solicitously solicits solicitude solid solidarity solidification solidified solidifies solidify solidifying solidity solidly solidness solids solitaire solitary solitude solitudes solo soloing soloist soloists solstice solstices solubility soluble solute solutes solution solutions solvable solve solved solvency solvent solvents solver solvers solves solving soma somali somalia somas somatic sombre sombrely sombreness sombrero some somebody someday somehow someone somersault somersaulted somersaulting somersaults something sometime sometimes someway someways somewhat somewhere somnambulist somnolence somnolent son sonar sonars sonata sonatas sones song songbird songbirds songbook songs songsters songwriter songwriters songwriting sonic sonically soninlaw sonnet sonnets sonny sonora sonorities sonority sonorous sonorously sonorousness sons sonsinlaw soon sooner soonest soonish soot soothe soothed soothers soothes soothing soothingly soothsayer soothsayers soothsaying sootier soots sooty sop sophist sophisticate sophisticated sophisticates sophistication sophistry sophists soporific sopping soppy soprano sorbet sorbets sorcerer sorcerers sorceress sorcery sordid sordidly sordidness sore sorely soreness sores sorghum sorority sorrel sorrier sorriest sorrow sorrowed sorrowful sorrowfully sorrowing sorrows sorry sort sortable sorted sorter sorters sortie sorties sorting sorts sos soso sot sotho soubriquet soudan souffle sought soughtafter souk souks soul souldestroying souled soulful soulfully soulless souls soulsearching sound soundcheck sounded sounder soundest sounding soundings soundless soundlessly soundly soundness soundproof soundproofed soundproofing sounds soundtrack soundtracks soup soups soupy sour source sourced sourceless sources sourcing soured sourest souring sourly sourness sours soused south southbound southerly southern southerner southerners southernmost southward southwards souvenir souvenirs sovereign sovereigns sovereignty soviet sow sowed sower sowers soweto sowing sown sows soy soya soybean soybeans spa space spaceage spacecraft spaced spaceflight spaceman spacemen spacer spacers spaces spaceship spaceships spacesuit spacesuits spacey spacial spacing spacings spacious spaciously spaciousness spade spaded spades spadework spaghetti spain spam span spandrels spangle spangled spangles spaniel spaniels spanish spank spanked spanker spanking spankings spanks spanned spanner spanners spanning spans spar spare spared sparely spares sparetime sparing sparingly spark sparked sparking sparkle sparkled sparkler sparklers sparkles sparkling sparklingly sparkly sparks sparred sparring sparrow sparrowhawk sparrows spars sparse sparsely sparseness sparser sparsest sparsity sparta spartan spartans spas spasm spasmodic spasmodically spasms spastic spastics spat spate spatial spatially spats spatter spattered spattering spatters spatula spatulas spawn spawned spawning spawns spay spayed spaying spays speak speakable speaker speakers speaking speaks spear speared spearhead spearheaded spearheading spearheads spearing spears spec special specialisation specialisations specialise specialised specialises specialising specialism specialisms specialist specialists specialities speciality specially specialness specials specialty speciation species specifiable specifiably specific specifically specification specifications specificities specificity specificness specifics specified specifier specifiers specifies specify specifying specimen specimens specious speck speckle speckled speckles specks specs spectacle spectacles spectacular spectacularly spectaculars spectator spectators spectra spectral spectre spectres spectrogram spectrograph spectrometer spectrometers spectrometric spectrometry spectrophotometer spectrophotometers spectrophotometry spectroscope spectroscopes spectroscopic spectroscopically spectroscopy spectrum specular speculate speculated speculates speculating speculation speculations speculative speculatively speculator speculators speculum sped speech speeches speechifying speechless speechlessly speed speedboat speedboats speedcop speeded speedier speediest speedily speeding speedometer speedometers speeds speedup speedway speedwell speedy spell spellable spellbinder spellbinding spellbound spelled speller spellers spelling spellings spells spelt spencer spend spender spenders spending spends spendthrift spent spermatozoa spew spewed spewing spews sphagnum sphere spheres spheric spherical spherically spheroid spheroidal sphincter sphincters sphinx sphygmomanometer spice spiced spicer spicery spices spicier spicily spicing spicy spider spiders spidery spied spies spigot spike spiked spikes spikier spikiest spiking spiky spill spillage spillages spilled spiller spilling spills spilt spin spinach spinal spindle spindles spindly spindrier spindriers spindrift spindry spine spinechilling spineless spines spinet spinnaker spinner spinners spinney spinning spinoff spinoffs spins spinster spinsterhood spinsters spiny spiral spiralled spiralling spirally spirals spirant spirants spire spires spirit spirited spiritedl spiritedly spiritless spirits spiritual spiritualised spiritualism spiritualist spiritualists spirituality spiritually spirituals spit spite spiteful spitefully spitfire spitfires spits spitting spittle spittoon spittoons splash splashdown splashed splashes splashing splashy splat splatter splattered splattering splayed splaying spleen spleens splendid splendidly splendour splendours splenetic splice spliced splicer splicers splices splicing spline splines splint splinted splinter splintered splintering splinters splints split splits splittable splitter splitters splitting splittings splodge splodges splotches splurge splutter spluttered spluttering splutters spoil spoilage spoiled spoiler spoilers spoiling spoils spoilsport spoilt spoke spoken spokes spokeshave spokeshaves spokesman spokesmen spokespeople spokesperson spokespersons spokeswoman spokeswomen sponge sponged sponger sponges spongier spongiest sponginess sponging spongy sponsor sponsored sponsoring sponsors sponsorship sponsorships spontaneity spontaneous spontaneously spoof spoofs spook spooked spooking spooks spooky spool spooled spooling spools spoon spooned spoonful spoonfuls spooning spoons spoor sporadic sporadically spore spores sporran sporrans sport sported sporting sportingly sportive sports sportsman sportsmanship sportsmen sportswear sporty spot spotless spotlessly spotlessness spotlight spotlighting spotlights spotlit spoton spots spotted spotter spotters spottier spottiest spotting spotty spouse spouses spout spouted spouting spouts sprain sprained spraining sprains sprang sprat sprats sprawl sprawled sprawling sprawls spray sprayed sprayer sprayers spraying sprays spread spreadeagled spreaders spreading spreads spreadsheet spreadsheets spree spreeing sprig sprightlier sprightliest sprightliness sprightly sprigs spring springboard springboards springbok springboks springclean springcleaned springer springier springiest springing springs springtime springy sprinkle sprinkled sprinkler sprinklers sprinkles sprinkling sprint sprinted sprinter sprinters sprinting sprints sprite sprites sprocket sprockets sprout sprouted sprouting sprouts spruce spruced sprucing sprung spry spud spume spun spunky spur spurge spurges spurious spuriously spurn spurned spurning spurns spurred spurring spurs spurt spurted spurting spurts sputnik sputniks sputter sputtered sputtering sputum spy spyglass spyhole spying spyings squabble squabbled squabbles squabbling squad squadron squadrons squads squalid squall squalling squalls squally squalor squander squandered squandering squanders square squared squarely squareness squarer squares squaring squarish squash squashed squashes squashier squashiest squashing squashy squat squats squatted squatter squatters squatting squaw squawk squawked squawking squawks squeak squeaked squeaker squeakier squeakiest squeaking squeaks squeaky squeal squealed squealer squealing squeals squeamish squeamishly squeamishness squeegee squeeze squeezed squeezer squeezes squeezing squeezy squelch squelched squelching squelchy squib squibs squid squids squiggle squiggles squint squinted squinting squints squire squirearchy squires squirm squirmed squirming squirms squirrel squirrelled squirrels squirt squirted squirting squirts srilanka stab stabbed stabber stabbing stabbings stabilisation stabilise stabilised stabiliser stabilisers stabilises stabilising stability stable stabled stablemate stabler stables stabling stably stabs staccato stack stacked stacker stacking stacks stadia stadium stadiums staff staffed staffing staffroom staffs stag stage stagecoach stagecoaches staged stagehands stager stages stagey stagflation stagger staggered staggering staggeringly staggers staging stagings stagnancy stagnant stagnate stagnated stagnates stagnating stagnation stags staid staidness stain stained stainer staining stainless stains stair staircase staircases stairhead stairs stairway stairways stairwell stairwells stake staked stakeholder stakeholders stakes staking stalactite stalactites stalagmite stalagmites stale stalemate stalemated stalemates staleness stalin stalk stalked stalker stalkers stalking stalks stall stalled stallholders stalling stallion stallions stalls stalwart stalwarts stamen stamens stamina stammer stammered stammering stammers stamp stamped stampede stampeded stampeding stamper stampers stamping stampings stamps stance stances stanchion stanchions stand standard standardisation standardisations standardise standardised standardises standardising standards standby standing standings standpoint standpoints stands standstill stank stanza stanzas stapes staphylococcus staple stapled stapler staplers staples stapling star starboard starch starched starches starchier starchiest starchy stardom stardust stare stared starer stares starfish stargaze stargazer stargazers stargazing staring stark starker starkest starkly starkness starless starlet starlets starlight starlike starling starlings starlit starred starrier starriest starring starry starryeyed stars starship starspangled starstruck starstudded start started starter starters starting startle startled startles startling startlingly starts startup startups starvation starve starved starves starving stashed stashes stashing stasis state statecraft stated statehood stateless stateliest stateliness stately statement statements stateoftheart staterooms states statesman statesmanlike statesmanship statesmen static statical statically statics stating station stationary stationed stationer stationers stationery stationing stationmaster stations statistic statistical statistically statistician statisticians statistics stator stators statuary statue statues statuesque statuette statuettes stature statures status statuses statute statutes statutorily statutory staunch staunchest staunching staunchly staunchness stave staved staves staving stay stayed stayers staying stays stead steadfast steadfastly steadfastness steadied steadier steadiest steadily steadiness steady steadygoing steadying steak steaks steal stealer stealers stealing steals stealth stealthier stealthiest stealthily stealthy steam steamboat steamboats steamed steamer steamers steamier steamiest steaming steamroller steamrollers steams steamship steamships steamy steed steeds steel steelclad steeled steeling steels steelwork steelworker steelworkers steelworks steely steep steeped steepen steepened steepening steepens steeper steepest steeping steeple steeplechase steeplechaser steeplechasers steeplechasing steepled steeplejack steeples steeply steepness steeps steer steerable steerage steered steering steers stegosaurus stellar stellated stem stemmed stemming stems stench stenches stencil stencilled stencils stenographer stenographers stenographic stenography stenosis stentor stentorian step stepbrother stepchildren stepdaughter stepfather stepladder stepmother stepparents steppe stepped steppes stepping steps stepsister stepson stepsons stepwise steradians stereo stereographic stereophonic stereos stereoscopic stereoscopically stereoscopy stereotype stereotyped stereotypes stereotypical stereotypically stereotyping sterile sterilisation sterilisations sterilise sterilised steriliser sterilising sterility sterling stern sterner sternest sternly sternness sterns sternum steroid steroids stet stethoscope stevedore stew steward stewardess stewardesses stewards stewardship stewed stewing stews stick sticker stickers stickiest stickily stickiness sticking stickleback sticklebacks stickler sticks sticky sties stiff stiffen stiffened stiffener stiffening stiffens stiffer stiffest stiffly stiffnecked stiffness stifle stifled stifles stifling stiflingly stigma stigmas stigmata stigmatisation stigmatise stigmatised stigmatising stiletto still stillbirths stillborn stilled stiller stilling stillness stills stilt stilted stilts stimulant stimulants stimulate stimulated stimulates stimulating stimulation stimulator stimulatory stimuli stimulus sting stinged stinger stingers stingier stingily stinging stingray stings stingy stink stinker stinkers stinking stinks stinky stint stinted stints stipel stipend stipendiary stipends stippled stipples stipulate stipulated stipulates stipulating stipulation stipulations stir stirfried stirfry stirred stirrer stirrers stirring stirrings stirrup stirrups stirs stitch stitched stitcher stitches stitching stoa stoat stoats stochastic stock stockade stockbroker stockbrokers stockbroking stockcar stocked stockholders stockholding stockier stockily stocking stockinged stockings stockist stockists stockpile stockpiled stockpiles stockpiling stockroom stocks stocktaking stocky stodge stodgier stodgiest stodgy stoep stoic stoical stoically stoicism stoics stoke stoked stoker stokers stokes stoking stole stolen stolid stolidity stolidly stoma stomach stomachache stomachs stomata stomp stomped stomping stomps stone stonecold stoned stoneless stonemason stonemasons stones stonewalled stoneware stonework stonier stoniest stonily stoning stony stood stooge stooges stool stoolpigeon stools stoop stooped stooping stoops stop stopcock stopgap stopover stoppable stoppage stoppages stopped stopper stoppered stoppers stopping stops stopwatch storage storages store stored storehouse storehouses storekeeper storekeepers storeman storeroom storerooms stores storey storeys stories storing stork storks storm stormed stormer stormers stormier stormiest storming storms stormtroopers stormy story storybook storyline storylines storyteller storytellers storytelling stout stouter stoutest stoutly stoutness stove stovepipe stoves stow stowage stowaway stowed stowing stows straddle straddled straddles straddling strafe strafed strafing straggle straggled straggler stragglers straggling straggly straight straightaway straighten straightened straightening straightens straighter straightest straightforward straightforwardly straightforwardness straightness strain strained strainer strainers straining strains strait straiten straitened straitjacket straitjackets straits strand stranded stranding strands strange strangely strangeness stranger strangers strangest strangle strangled stranglehold strangler stranglers strangles strangling strangulated strangulation strap strapless strapped strapper strapping straps strata stratagem stratagems strategic strategically strategies strategist strategists strategy stratification stratified stratifies stratifying stratigraphic stratigraphical stratigraphy stratosphere stratospheric stratospherically stratum stratus straw strawberries strawberry strawman straws stray strayed strayer straying strays streak streaked streaker streakers streakier streakiest streaking streaks streaky stream streamed streamer streamers streaming streamline streamlined streamlines streamlining streams street streets streetwalkers streetwise strength strengthen strengthened strengthening strengthens strengths strenuous strenuously streptococcal streptococci streptomycin stress stressed stresses stressful stressfulness stressing stretch stretchability stretchable stretched stretcher stretchered stretchers stretches stretchiness stretching stretchy strew strewed strewing strewn striated striation striations stricken strict stricter strictest strictly strictness stricture strictures stride stridency strident stridently strider strides striding strife strifes strike striker strikers strikes striking strikingly string stringed stringencies stringency stringent stringently stringer stringing strings stringy strip stripe striped striper stripes stripier stripiest striping stripling stripped stripper strippers stripping strips stripy strive strived striven striver strives striving strivings strode stroke stroked strokes stroking stroll strolled stroller strollers strolling strolls strong stronger strongest stronghold strongholds strongish strongly strongman strongmen strongminded strongroom strontium strop stropped stropping strops strove struck structural structuralism structuralist structuralists structurally structure structured structureless structures structuring strudel strudels struggle struggled struggles struggling strum strummed strumming strumpet strung strut struts strutted strutter strutting strychnine stub stubbed stubbing stubble stubbled stubbles stubbly stubborn stubbornly stubbornness stubby stubs stucco stuccoed stuck stuckup stud studded student students studentship studentships studied studier studiers studies studio studios studious studiously studiousness studs study studying stuff stuffed stuffer stuffier stuffiest stuffiness stuffing stuffs stuffy stultified stultify stultifying stumble stumbled stumbles stumbling stumblingly stump stumped stumping stumps stumpy stun stung stunned stunner stunning stunningly stuns stunt stunted stunting stuntman stunts stupefaction stupefied stupefy stupefying stupefyingly stupendous stupendously stupid stupider stupidest stupidities stupidity stupidly stupor stupors sturdier sturdiest sturdily sturdy sturgeon sturgeons stutter stuttered stuttering stutters sty style styled styles styli styling stylisation stylised stylish stylishly stylishness stylist stylistic stylistically stylistics stylists stylus styluses stymie stymied styrene styx suasion suave suavely sub subaltern subalterns subarctic subatomic subbed subbing subclass subclasses subcommittee subcommittees subconscious subconsciously subconsciousness subcontinent subcontract subcontracted subcontracting subcontractor subcontractors subcultural subculture subcultures subcutaneous subcutaneously subdivide subdivided subdivides subdividing subdivision subdivisions subducted subduction subdue subdued subdues subduing subeditor subeditors subfamily subgroup subgroups subharmonic subharmonics subhuman subject subjected subjecting subjection subjective subjectively subjectivism subjectivist subjectivity subjects subjugate subjugated subjugating subjugation subjunctive sublayer sublimate sublimated sublimation sublime sublimed sublimely sublimes sublimest subliminal subliminally sublimity sublunary submarine submarines submerge submerged submergence submerges submerging submersible submersion submission submissions submissive submissively submissiveness submit submits submittable submitted submitter submitters submitting subnormal suboptimal subordinate subordinated subordinates subordinating subordination subplot subplots subpoena subpoenaed subprogram subprograms subregional subroutine subroutines subs subscribe subscribed subscriber subscribers subscribes subscribing subscript subscription subscriptions subscripts subsection subsections subsequent subsequently subservience subservient subset subsets subside subsided subsidence subsides subsidiaries subsidiarity subsidiary subsidies subsiding subsidise subsidised subsidises subsidising subsidy subsist subsisted subsistence subsisting subsists subsoil subsonic subspace subspaces subspecies substance substances substandard substantial substantially substantiate substantiated substantiates substantiating substantiation substantive substantively substantives substation substitutable substitute substituted substitutes substituting substitution substitutions substrata substrate substrates substratum substructure substructures subsume subsumed subsumes subsuming subsurface subsystem subsystems subtenants subtend subtended subtending subtends subterfuge subterranean subtext subtitle subtitled subtitles subtitling subtle subtler subtlest subtleties subtlety subtly subtotal subtotals subtract subtracted subtracting subtraction subtractions subtractive subtractively subtracts subtropical subtropics subtype subtypes subunit subunits suburb suburban suburbanisation suburbanites suburbia suburbs subvention subventions subversion subversive subversively subversives subvert subverted subverting subverts subway subways subzero succeed succeeded succeeding succeeds success successes successful successfully succession successions successive successively successor successors succinct succinctly succinctness succour succulence succulent succumb succumbed succumbing succumbs such suchandsuch suchlike suck suckable sucked sucker suckers sucking suckle suckled suckles suckling sucklings sucks sucrose suction sud sudan sudden suddenly suddenness suds sue sued suede sues suet suffer sufferance suffered sufferer sufferers suffering sufferings suffers suffice sufficed suffices sufficiency sufficient sufficiently sufficing suffix suffixed suffixes suffocate suffocated suffocates suffocating suffocatingly suffocation suffrage suffragette suffragettes suffragist suffuse suffused suffuses suffusing suffusion sugar sugarcoated sugared sugaring sugarplums sugars sugary suggest suggested suggester suggesters suggestibility suggestible suggesting suggestion suggestions suggestive suggestively suggestiveness suggests sugillate suicidal suicidally suicide suicides suing suit suitabilities suitability suitable suitableness suitably suitcase suitcases suite suited suites suiting suitor suitors suits sulk sulked sulkier sulkiest sulkily sulkiness sulking sulks sulky sullen sullenly sullenness sullied sully sullying sulphate sulphates sulphide sulphides sulphonamides sulphur sulphuric sulphurous sultan sultana sultanas sultans sultry sum sumatra summa summability summable summaries summarily summarise summarised summariser summarisers summarises summarising summary summation summations summed summer summers summertime summery summing summit summits summon summoned summoner summoning summonings summons summonsed summonses summonsing sumo sump sumps sumptuous sumptuously sumptuousness sums sun sunbath sunbathe sunbathed sunbathers sunbathing sunbeam sunbeams sunbed sunbeds sunblock sunburn sunburned sunburns sunburnt sunburst suncream sundaes sunday sundays sundial sundials sundown sundried sundries sundry sunflower sunflowers sung sunglasses sunk sunken sunking sunless sunlight sunlit sunlounger sunned sunnier sunniest sunning sunny sunrise sunrises sunroof suns sunscreen sunscreens sunset sunsets sunshade sunshine sunspot sunspots sunstroke suntan suntanned sup super superabundance superabundant superannuate superannuated superannuating superannuation superb superbly supercharged supercharger supercilious superciliously superciliousness supercomputer supercomputers supercomputing superconducting superconductivity superconductor superconductors supercooled supercooling supercritical superdense superfamily superficial superficiality superficially superfix superfluities superfluity superfluous superfluously superglue superheat superheated superhero superhuman superimpose superimposed superimposes superimposing superimposition superintend superintendence superintendent superintendents superior superiority superiors superlative superlatively superlatives superman supermarket supermarkets supermen supermodel supermodels supernatant supernatural supernaturally supernova supernovae supernumerary superordinate superpose superposed superposition superpositions superpower superpowers supersaturated supersaturation superscript superscripts supersede superseded supersedes superseding supersonic supersonically superstar superstars superstate superstates superstition superstitions superstitious superstitiously superstore superstores superstructure superstructures supertanker supertankers supervene supervise supervised supervises supervising supervision supervisions supervisor supervisors supervisory supine supped supper suppers supping supplant supplanted supplanting supple supplement supplemental supplementary supplementation supplemented supplementing supplements suppleness suppliant suppliants supplicant supplicants supplicate supplicating supplication supplications supplied supplier suppliers supplies supply supplying support supportability supportable supported supporter supporters supporting supportive supports suppose supposed supposedly supposes supposing supposition suppositions suppositories suppress suppressed suppresses suppressible suppressing suppression suppressive suppressor suppressors suppurating supranational supranationalism supremacist supremacy supremal supreme supremely supremo sups surcharge surcharged surcharges surd sure surefooted surely sureness surer surest sureties surety surf surface surfaced surfacer surfaces surfacing surfactant surfactants surfboard surfed surfeit surfer surfers surfing surfings surfs surge surged surgeon surgeons surgeries surgery surges surgical surgically surging surliest surlily surliness surly surmise surmised surmises surmising surmount surmountable surmounted surmounting surname surnames surpass surpassed surpasses surpassing surplice surplus surpluses surprise surprised surprises surprising surprisingly surreal surrealism surrealist surrealistic surrealists surreality surrender surrendered surrendering surrenders surreptitious surreptitiously surrey surreys surrogacy surrogate surrogates surround surrounded surrounding surroundings surrounds surtax surtitles surveillance survey surveyed surveying surveyor surveyors surveys survivability survivable survival survivals survive survived survives surviving survivor survivors susceptibilities susceptibility susceptible sushi sushis suspect suspected suspecting suspects suspend suspended suspender suspenders suspending suspends suspense suspension suspensions suspicion suspicions suspicious suspiciously sustain sustainability sustainable sustainably sustained sustaining sustains sustenance suture sutures suzerainty swab swabbed swabbing swabs swad swaddled swaddling swads swag swagger swaggered swaggering swags swahili swains swallow swallowed swallower swallowing swallows swallowtail swam swamp swamped swampier swampiest swamping swampland swamplands swamps swampy swan swans swansong swap swappable swapped swapper swappers swapping swaps sward swarm swarmed swarming swarms swarthier swarthiest swarthy swashbuckling swastika swastikas swat swathe swathed swathes swats swatted swatting sway swayed swaying sways swazi swazis swear swearer swearers swearing swears swearword swearwords sweat sweatband sweated sweater sweaters sweatier sweatiest sweatily sweating sweats sweatshirt sweatshirts sweatshop sweatshops sweaty swede sweden swedish sweep sweepable sweeper sweepers sweeping sweepingly sweepings sweeps sweepstake sweet sweetbread sweetcorn sweeten sweetened sweetener sweeteners sweetening sweetens sweeter sweetest sweetheart sweethearts sweetie sweetish sweetly sweetmeat sweetmeats sweetness sweetpea sweets sweetshop swell swelled swelling swellings swells sweltering sweltry swept swerve swerved swerves swerving swift swifter swiftest swiftlet swiftly swiftness swifts swill swilled swilling swim swimmer swimmers swimming swimmingly swims swimsuit swimsuits swimwear swindle swindled swindler swindlers swindles swindling swine swines swing swingeing swinger swingers swinging swings swingy swipe swiped swipes swirl swirled swirling swirls swish swished swishing swishy swiss switch switchable switchback switchboard switchboards switched switcher switches switchgear switching swivel swivelled swivelling swivels swollen swoon swooned swooning swoons swoop swooped swooping swoops swop swopped swopping swops sword swordfish swords swordsman swordsmen swore sworn swot swots swotted swotting swum swung sycamore sycamores sycophancy sycophant sycophantic sycophantically sycophants sydney syllabary syllabi syllabic syllable syllables syllabub syllabus syllabuses syllogism syllogisms syllogistic sylph sylphs symbiont symbiosis symbiotic symbiotically symbol symbolic symbolical symbolically symbolisation symbolise symbolised symbolises symbolising symbolism symbolist symbolists symbols symmetric symmetrical symmetrically symmetries symmetrisation symmetrising symmetry sympathetic sympathetically sympathies sympathise sympathised sympathiser sympathisers sympathises sympathising sympathy symphonic symphonies symphonists symphony symposia symposium symptom symptomatic symptomatically symptomless symptoms synagogue synagogues synapse synapses synaptic sync synchronic synchronicity synchronisation synchronise synchronised synchronises synchronising synchronous synchronously synchrony synchrotron syncopated syncopation syncretic syndicalism syndicalist syndicate syndicated syndicates syndication syndrome syndromes synergism synergistic synergy synod synodic synods synonym synonymic synonymous synonymously synonyms synonymy synopses synopsis synoptic synovial syntactic syntactical syntactically syntagmatic syntax syntheses synthesis synthesise synthesised synthesiser synthesisers synthesises synthesising synthetic synthetically synthetics syphilis syphilitic syphon syphoned syphoning syphons syria syrian syringe syringes syrup syrups syrupy system systematic systematically systematisation systematise systemic systemically systems systoles systolic taal tab tabasco tabbed tabbing tabby tabernacle tabernacles table tableau tableaux tablebay tablecloth tablecloths tabled tableland tables tablespoon tablespoonfuls tablespoons tablet tablets tableware tabling tabloid tabloids taboo taboos tabs tabular tabulate tabulated tabulates tabulating tabulation tabulations tabulator tachograph tachographs tachycardia tachyon tachyons tacit tacitly taciturn tack tacked tackier tackiest tackiness tacking tackle tackled tackler tackles tackling tacks tacky tact tactful tactfully tactic tactical tactically tactician tactics tactile tactless tactlessly tactlessness tactual tadpole tadpoles taffeta tag tagged tagging tags tahiti tahr tail tailed tailing tailless taillessness tailor tailorable tailored tailoring tailormade tailors tailpiece tailplane tails tailspin tailwind taint tainted tainting taints taipei taiwan take takeable takeaway takeaways taken takeover takeovers taker takers takes taking takings talc talcum tale talent talented talentless talents tales talisman talismans talk talkative talkativeness talkback talked talker talkers talkie talkies talking talkings talks tall tallboy taller tallest tallied tallies tallish tallness tallow tally tallyho tallying talmud talon talons tambourine tambourines tame tamed tamely tameness tamer tamers tames tamest taming tamp tamped tamper tampered tampering tampers tan tandem tandems tang tangelo tangent tangential tangentially tangents tangerine tangerines tangible tangibly tangle tangled tangles tangling tango tangy tank tankage tankard tankards tanked tanker tankers tankful tanking tanks tanned tanner tanneries tanners tannery tannic tannin tanning tannins tannoy tans tantalise tantalised tantalising tantalisingly tantalum tantamount tantrum tantrums tanzania tap tapas tapdance tapdancing tape taped taper taperecorded taperecording tapered taperer tapering tapers tapes tapestries tapestry tapeworm tapeworms taping tapioca tapir tapped tappers tapping tappings taproom taps tar taramasalata tarantula tarantulas tardily tardiness tardy tares target targeted targeting targets tariff tariffs tarmac tarmacadam tarn tarnish tarnished tarnishing tarns tarot tarpaulin tarpaulins tarragon tarred tarried tarrier tarriest tarring tarry tarrying tars tarsal tarsus tart tartan tartans tartar tartaric tartly tartness tartrate tarts tarty tarzan task tasked tasking taskmaster tasks tasmania tassel tasselled tassels taste tasted tasteful tastefully tastefulness tasteless tastelessly tastelessness taster tasters tastes tastier tastiest tasting tastings tasty tat tattered tatters tattle tattoo tattooed tattooing tattoos tatty tau taught taunt taunted taunter taunting tauntingly taunts taut tauter tautest tautly tautness tautological tautologically tautologies tautologous tautology tavern taverna tavernas taverns tawdry tawny tax taxable taxation taxdeductible taxed taxes taxfree taxi taxicab taxidermist taxidermists taxidermy taxied taxies taxiing taxing taxis taxman taxonomic taxonomical taxonomies taxonomist taxonomists taxonomy taxpayer taxpayers taxpaying taylor tea teabag teabags teach teachable teacher teachers teaches teaching teachings teacloth teacup teacups teak teal team teamed teaming teammate teammates teams teamster teamwork teaparty teapot teapots tear tearaway teardrop teardrops tearful tearfully tearfulness teargas tearing tearless tearoom tearooms tears tearstained teas tease teased teaser teasers teases teashop teashops teasing teasingly teaspoon teaspoonful teaspoonfuls teaspoons teat teatime teatimes teats tech technical technicalities technicality technically technician technicians technique techniques technocracies technocracy technocrat technocratic technocrats technological technologically technologies technologist technologists technology technophiles technophobia technophobic tectonic tectonically tectonics ted teddies teddy tedious tediously tediousness tedium tediums teds tee teed teehee teeing teem teemed teeming teems teen teenage teenaged teenager teenagers teeniest teens teensy teeny teenyweeny teepee teepees tees teeter teetered teetering teeth teethe teethed teethes teething teethmarks teetotal teetotalism teetotaller teetotallers teheran telaviv telecommunication telecommunications telecommuting telecoms teleconference telegram telegrams telegraph telegraphed telegraphic telegraphing telegraphs telegraphy telekinesis telemetry teleological teleology telepathic telepathically telepathy telephone telephoned telephones telephonic telephoning telephonist telephonists telephony telephoto teleprinter teleprinters telesales telescope telescoped telescopes telescopic telescoping teletext telethon teletype teletypes televise televised televising television televisions televisual teleworking telex telexes tell teller tellers telling tellingly tells telltale telly temerity temper tempera temperament temperamental temperamentally temperaments temperance temperate temperately temperature temperatures tempered tempering tempers tempest tempests tempestuous tempi template templates temple temples tempo temporal temporality temporally temporaries temporarily temporary tempt temptation temptations tempted tempter tempters tempting temptingly temptress tempts ten tenability tenable tenacious tenaciously tenacity tenancies tenancy tenant tenanted tenantry tenants tench tend tended tendencies tendency tendentious tendentiously tender tendered tenderer tenderest tendering tenderly tenderness tenders tending tendon tendons tendril tendrils tends tenement tenements tenet tenets tenfold tenners tennis tenon tenor tenors tens tense tensed tensely tenseness tenser tenses tensest tensile tensing tension tensional tensioned tensions tensity tensor tensors tent tentacle tentacled tentacles tentative tentatively tented tenterhooks tenth tenths tents tenuous tenuously tenure tenured tenures tenurial tepee tepid tequila tercentenary term termed terminal terminally terminals terminate terminated terminates terminating termination terminations terminator terminators terming termini terminological terminologies terminology terminus termite termites termly terms tern ternary terns terrace terraced terraces terracing terracotta terraform terraformed terrain terrains terrapin terrapins terrazzo terrestrial terrible terribly terrier terriers terrific terrifically terrified terrifies terrify terrifying terrifyingly terrine territorial territoriality territorially territories territory terror terrorise terrorised terrorising terrorism terrorist terrorists terrors terrorstricken terry terse tersely terseness terser tertiaries tertiary tessellated tessellation tessellations tesseral test testability testable testament testamentary testaments testdrive testdriving tested tester testers testes testicle testicles testicular testier testiest testified testifies testify testifying testily testimonial testimonials testimonies testimony testiness testing testings testis testosterone tests testtube testy tetanus tetchily tetchy tether tethered tethering tethers tetra tetrachloride tetrahedra tetrahedral tetrahedron tetrahedrons tetrameters tetroxide texan texans texas text textbook textbooks textile textiles texts textual textuality textually textural texturally texture textured textures thai thalamus thalidomide thallium thames than thane thank thanked thankful thankfully thankfulness thanking thankless thanklessly thanks thanksgiving that thatch thatched thatcher thatchers thatching thaumaturge thaw thawed thawing thaws the theatre theatres theatrical theatricality theatrically theatricals thebes thee theft thefts their theirs theism theist theistic theists them themas thematic thematically theme themed themes themselves then thence thenceforth thenceforward theocracies theocracy theodolite theodolites theologian theologians theological theologically theologies theologists theology theorem theorems theoretic theoretical theoretically theoretician theoreticians theories theorisation theorise theorised theorises theorising theorist theorists theory theosophy therapeutic therapeutically therapies therapist therapists therapy there thereabouts thereafter thereby therefor therefore therefrom therein thereof thereon thereto thereunder thereupon therewith thermal thermally thermals thermochemical thermodynamic thermodynamical thermodynamically thermodynamics thermoelectric thermometer thermometers thermoplastic thermostat thermostatic thermostatically thermostats therms thesauri thesaurus these thesis thespian thespians theta they thick thicken thickened thickening thickens thicker thickest thicket thickets thickish thickly thickness thicknesses thickset thickskinned thief thieve thieved thievery thieves thieving thievish thievishness thigh thighs thimble thimbleful thimblefuls thimbles thin thine thing things think thinkable thinker thinkers thinking thinks thinktank thinly thinned thinner thinners thinness thinnest thinning thinnish thins third thirdly thirds thirst thirsted thirstier thirstiest thirstily thirsting thirsts thirsty thirteen thirteenth thirties thirtieth thirty this thistle thistles thither thomas thong thongs thor thoracic thorax thorium thorn thornier thorniest thorns thorny thorough thoroughbred thoroughbreds thoroughfare thoroughfares thoroughgoing thoroughly thoroughness those thou though thought thoughtful thoughtfully thoughtfulness thoughtless thoughtlessly thoughtlessness thoughtprovoking thoughts thousand thousandfold thousands thousandth thousandths thrall thrash thrashed thrasher thrashes thrashing thrashings thread threadbare threaded threading threads threat threaten threatened threatening threateningly threatens threats three threedimensional threefold threequarters threes threesome threesomes thresh threshed thresher threshers threshing threshold thresholds threw thrice thrift thriftier thriftiest thriftless thrifts thrifty thrill thrilled thriller thrillers thrilling thrillingly thrills thrive thrived thrives thriving throat throatier throatiest throatily throats throaty throb throbbed throbbing throbs thromboses thrombosis thrombus throne throned thrones throng thronged thronging throngs throroughly throttle throttled throttles throttling through throughout throughput throw throwaway throwback thrower throwers throwing thrown throws thrum thrush thrushes thrust thruster thrusters thrusting thrusts thud thudded thudding thuds thug thuggery thuggish thugs thumb thumbed thumbing thumbnail thumbprint thumbs thumbscrew thumbscrews thump thumped thumping thumps thunder thunderbolt thunderbolts thunderclap thunderclaps thundercloud thundered thunderflashes thundering thunderous thunderously thunders thunderstorm thunderstorms thunderstruck thundery thursday thus thwack thwart thwarted thwarting thwarts thy thyme thymus thyristor thyristors thyroid thyroids thyself tiara tiaras tibia tibiae tic tick ticked ticker tickers ticket ticketed tickets ticking tickle tickled tickler tickles tickling ticklish ticks tics tidal tidbit tidbits tiddlers tiddlywinks tide tideless tides tideway tidied tidier tidies tidiest tidily tidiness tiding tidings tidy tidying tie tiebreak tied tier tiered tiers ties tiger tigerish tigers tight tighten tightened tightening tightens tighter tightest tightfisted tightlipped tightly tightness tightrope tights tightwad tigress tigris tikka tilde tildes tile tiled tiler tiles tiling tilings till tillage tilled tiller tillers tilling tills tilt tilted tilting tilts timber timbered timbre time timebase timeconsuming timed timeframe timehonoured timekeeper timekeepers timekeeping timelapse timeless timelessness timeliness timely timeout timepiece timer timers times timescale timescales timeshare timetable timetabled timetables timetabling timid timidity timidly timing timings tin tincan tincture tinctured tinder tinderbox tinfoil tinge tinged tinges tingle tingled tingles tinglier tingliest tingling tingly tinier tiniest tinker tinkered tinkering tinkers tinkle tinkled tinkling tinkly tinned tinner tinnier tinniest tinnily tinnitus tinny tinopener tinpot tins tinsel tinsels tint tinted tinting tintings tints tinware tiny tip tipoff tipoffs tipped tipper tipping tipple tippling tips tipster tipsters tipsy tiptoe tiptoed tiptoeing tiptoes tiptop tirade tirades tire tired tiredly tiredness tireless tirelessly tires tiresome tiresomely tiring tiro tissue tissues tit titan titanic titanically titanium titans titbit titbits titfortat tithe tithes tithing titillate titillated titillating titillation title titled titles titling titrated titration titre titres tits titter tittered tittering titters titular to toad toadies toads toadstool toadstools toady toast toasted toaster toasters toasting toasts toasty tobacco tobacconist tobacconists tobago toboggan tobogganing toby toccata tocsin today toddle toddled toddler toddlers toddling toddy todies toe toed toehold toeing toeless toenail toenails toes toffee toffees toffy tofu tog toga togas together togetherness toggle toggled toggles toggling togo togs toil toiled toiler toilet toileting toiletries toiletry toilets toilette toiling toils toitoi tokamak token tokenism tokenistic tokens tokyo tolbooth told toledo tolerable tolerably tolerance tolerances tolerant tolerantly tolerate tolerated tolerates tolerating toleration toll tolled tollgate tolling tolls toluene tomahawk tomahawks tomato tomb tombola tomboy tomboys tombs tombstone tombstones tomcat tome tomes tomfoolery tomography tomorrow tomorrows tomtom ton tonal tonalities tonality tonally tone toned tonedeaf toneless tonelessly toner toners tones tonga tongs tongue tongueincheek tongues tonguetied tonguetwister tonguetwisters tonic tonics tonight toning tonnage tonnages tonne tonnes tons tonsil tonsillectomy tonsillitis tonsils tonsure tony too took tool toolbox toolboxes tooled tooling toolmaker toolmaking tools toot tooted tooth toothache toothbrush toothbrushes toothed toothier toothiest toothless toothmarks toothpaste toothpick toothpicks toothsome toothy tooting tootle top topaz topazes topcoat topheavy topiary topic topical topicality topically topics topless toplevel topmost topnotch topographic topographical topographically topography topological topologically topologies topologist topologists topology topped topper topping toppings topple toppled topples toppling tops topsoil topspin topsyturvy torah torch torchbearer torchbearers torched torches torchlight torchlit tore tori tories torment tormented tormenting tormentor tormentors torments torn tornado toronto torpedo torpedoed torpid torpor torque torques torrent torrential torrents torrid torsion torsional torsions torso tortoise tortoises tortoiseshell torts tortuous tortuously torture tortured torturer torturers tortures torturing torturous torus tory toss tossed tossers tosses tossing tossup tossups tot total totalising totalitarian totalitarianism totality totalled totalling totally totals totem totemic totems tots totted totter tottered tottering totters totting toucans touch touchandgo touchdown touchdowns touche touched toucher touches touchier touchiest touchiness touching touchingly touchy tough toughen toughened toughens tougher toughest toughie toughies toughly toughness toughs toupee tour toured tourer tourers touring tourism tourist touristic tourists touristy tournament tournaments tourney tourniquet tours tousled tousles tout touted touting touts tow toward towards towed towel towelled towelling towels tower towered towering towers towing town towns townscape townscapes townsfolk township townships townsman townsmen townspeople towpath towpaths tows toxaemia toxic toxicity toxicological toxicology toxin toxins toy toyed toying toymaker toys toyshop trace traceability traceable traced traceless tracer tracers tracery traces trachea tracheal tracheostomy tracheotomy tracing tracings track trackbed tracked tracker trackers tracking trackless tracks tracksuit tracksuits trackway trackways tract tractability tractable traction tractor tractors tracts trad trade tradeable traded tradein tradeins trademark trademarked trademarks trader traders trades tradesman tradesmen tradespeople trading tradings tradition traditional traditionalism traditionalist traditionalists traditionally traditions traduced traducer traffic trafficked trafficker traffickers trafficking tragedian tragedians tragedies tragedy tragic tragical tragically trail trailed trailer trailers trailing trails train trained trainee trainees trainer trainers training trainings trainload trains trait traitor traitorous traitorously traitors traits trajectories trajectory tram tramcar tramcars tramlines trammel tramp tramped tramping trample trampled tramples trampling trampoline trampolines trampolining trampolinist tramps trams tramway tramways trance trances tranche tranches tranny tranquil tranquillise tranquillised tranquilliser tranquillisers tranquillity tranquilly transact transacted transacting transaction transactional transactions transactor transatlantic transceiver transceivers transcend transcended transcendence transcendent transcendental transcendentally transcendentals transcending transcends transcontinental transcribe transcribed transcriber transcribers transcribes transcribing transcript transcription transcriptional transcriptions transcripts transducer transducers transduction transection transept transepts transfer transferability transferable transferee transferees transference transferral transferred transferring transfers transfiguration transfigured transfinite transfinitely transfixed transform transformation transformational transformations transformative transformed transformer transformers transforming transforms transfused transfusing transfusion transfusions transgress transgressed transgresses transgressing transgression transgressions transgressive transgressor transgressors transhipment transience transient transiently transients transistor transistorised transistors transit transition transitional transitions transitive transitively transitivity transitoriness transitory transits translatable translate translated translates translating translation translational translations translator translators transliterate transliterated transliterates transliterating transliteration transliterations translucence translucency translucent transmigration transmissible transmission transmissions transmissive transmit transmits transmittable transmittance transmitted transmitter transmitters transmitting transmogrification transmogrifies transmogrify transmutation transmute transmuted transmuting transnational transom transonic transparencies transparency transparent transparently transpiration transpire transpired transpires transplant transplantation transplanted transplanting transplants transponder transponders transport transportability transportable transportation transported transporter transporters transporting transports transpose transposed transposes transposing transposition transpositions transverse transversely transvestism transvestite transvestites trap trapdoor trapdoors trapeze trappable trapped trapper trappers trapping trappings traps trash trashed trashy trauma traumas traumata traumatic traumatise traumatised travail travails travel travelled traveller travellers travelling travelogue travelogues travels traversal traversals traverse traversed traverses traversing travesties travesty trawl trawled trawler trawlers trawling trawlnet trawls tray trays treacherous treacherously treachery treacle tread treader treading treadle treadmill treadmills treads treason treasonable treasonous treasons treasure treasured treasurer treasurers treasurership treasures treasuries treasuring treasury treat treatable treated treaties treating treatise treatises treatment treatments treats treaty treble trebled trebles trebling tree treeless trees treetop treetops trefoil trefoils trek trekked trekker trekkers trekking treks trellis trellised trellises tremble trembled trembler trembles trembling tremblingly tremblings tremendous tremendously tremolo tremor tremors tremulous tremulously tremulousness trench trenchant trenchantly trenched trencher trenches trenching trend trendier trendiest trendiness trends trendy trepanned trepidation trepidations trespass trespassed trespasser trespassers trespasses trespassing tress tresses trestle trestles trews triad triadic triads triage trial trials triangle triangles triangular triangulate triangulated triangulating triangulation triangulations triathlon triatomic tribal tribalism tribally tribe tribes tribesman tribesmen tribespeople tribulation tribulations tribunal tribunals tribune tribunes tributaries tributary tribute tributes trice trick tricked trickery trickier trickiest trickily tricking trickle trickled trickles trickling tricks trickster tricksters tricky tricolour tricolours tricycle tricycles trident tridents tried triennial trier tries triffid triffids trifle trifled trifler trifles trifling trigger triggered triggerhappy triggering triggers triglyceride trigonometric trigonometrical trigonometry trigram trigrams trigs trikes trilateral trilby trilingual trill trilled trilling trillion trillions trills trilobite trilobites trilogies trilogy trim trimaran trimmed trimmer trimmers trimming trimmings trimodal trims trinidad trinity trinket trinkets trio trip tripartite tripe triplane triple tripled triples triplet triplets triplex triplicate triplication tripling triply tripod tripods tripoli tripped trippers tripping trips triptych tripwire tripwires trireme trisecting trisection trisector tristan trite triteness tritium triumph triumphal triumphalism triumphalist triumphant triumphantly triumphed triumphing triumphs triumvirate trivia trivial trivialisation trivialisations trivialise trivialised trivialises trivialising trivialities triviality trivially trod trodden troglodyte troglodytes troika troikas troll trolley trolleys trolling trollish trolls trombone trombones trombonist trombonists troop trooped trooper troopers trooping troops troopship trope tropes trophies trophy tropic tropical tropically tropics tropopause troposphere tropospheric trot trots trotted trotter trotters trotting troubadour troubadours trouble troubled troublemaker troublemakers troubles troubleshooter troubleshooters troubleshooting troublesome troublesomeness troubling trough troughs trounce trounced trounces trouncing troupe trouper troupers troupes trouser trousers trout trouts trove trowel trowels troy truancy truant truanting truants truce truces truck trucks truculence truculent truculently trudge trudged trudges trudging true trueblue truer truest truffle truffles truism truisms truly trump trumped trumpery trumpet trumpeted trumpeter trumpeters trumpeting trumpets trumps truncate truncated truncates truncating truncation truncations truncheon truncheons trundle trundled trundles trundling trunk trunking trunks trunnion trunnions truss trussed trusses trussing trust trusted trustee trustees trusteeship trustful trustfully trustfulness trusties trusting trustingly trusts trustworthiness trustworthy trusty truth truthful truthfully truthfulness truths try trying tsetse tshirt tsunami tswana tswanas tuareg tuaregs tuatara tub tuba tubas tubby tube tubed tubeless tuber tubercular tuberculosis tubers tubes tubing tubs tubular tubules tuck tucked tucker tuckers tucking tucks tues tuesday tuesdays tuft tufted tufting tufts tug tugela tugged tugging tugs tuition tulip tulips tumble tumbled tumbledown tumbler tumblers tumbles tumbling tumbrils tumescent tummies tummy tumour tumours tumult tumults tumultuous tumultuously tumulus tun tuna tunable tunas tundra tundras tune tuned tuneful tunefully tuneless tunelessly tuner tuners tunes tungsten tunic tunics tuning tunings tunisia tunisian tunnel tunnelled tunnellers tunnelling tunnels tunny tuns tuppence tuppences turban turbans turbid turbidity turbine turbines turbo turbocharged turbocharger turboprop turbot turbulence turbulent tureen tureens turf turfed turfs turfy turgid turgidity turgidly turin turk turkey turkeys turkish turks turmeric turmoil turmoils turn turnabout turnaround turncoat turncoats turned turner turners turning turnings turnip turnips turnkey turnout turnouts turnover turnovers turnpike turnround turns turnstile turnstiles turntable turntables turpentine turpitude turquoise turret turreted turrets turtle turtleneck turtles tuscany tusk tusked tusker tusks tussle tussles tussling tussock tussocks tussocky tutelage tutelary tutor tutored tutorial tutorials tutoring tutors tutu tuxedo twain twang twanged twanging twangs tweak tweaked tweaking tweaks twee tweed tweeds tweedy tweeness tweet tweeter tweeters tweets tweezers twelfth twelfths twelve twelves twenties twentieth twenty twice twiddle twiddled twiddler twiddles twiddling twiddly twig twigged twiggy twigs twilight twilit twill twin twine twined twines twinge twinges twining twinkle twinkled twinkles twinkling twinned twinning twins twirl twirled twirling twirls twist twisted twister twisters twisting twists twisty twit twitch twitched twitches twitching twitchy twitter twittered twittering two twodimensional twofaced twofold twosome tycoon tycoons tying tyke tykes type typecast typecasting typed typeface typefaces typeless types typescript typescripts typeset typesets typesetter typesetters typesetting typewriter typewriters typewriting typewritten typhoid typhoon typhoons typhus typical typicality typically typified typifies typify typifying typing typings typist typists typographer typographers typographic typographical typographically typography typological typologically typologies typology tyrannic tyrannical tyrannically tyrannicide tyrannies tyrannise tyrannised tyrannous tyranny tyrant tyrants tyre tyres uboats udder udders ufo uganda ugandan uglier ugliest uglification ugliness ugly uhuh uke ukraine ukulele ukuleles ulcer ulcerate ulcerated ulceration ulcerations ulcerous ulcers ulster ulsters ulterior ultimacy ultimate ultimately ultimatum ultimatums ultimo ultra ultramarine ultramontane ultrasonic ultrasonics ultrasound ultraviolet umbilical umbilicus umbra umbrae umbrage umbrageous umbras umbrella umbrellas umlaut umlauts umpire umpired umpires umpiring umpteen umpteenth unabashed unabashedly unabated unable unabridged unabsorbed unacceptability unacceptable unacceptably unaccepted unaccommodating unaccompanied unaccountability unaccountable unaccountably unaccounted unaccustomed unachievable unacknowledged unacquainted unactivated unadapted unadaptive unaddressable unaddressed unadjusted unadorned unadulterated unadventurous unadvertised unaesthetic unaffected unaffectedly unaffiliated unaffordable unafraid unaided unaligned unalike unallocated unalloyed unalterable unalterably unaltered unambiguity unambiguous unambiguously unambitious unamended unamused unanimity unanimous unanimously unannotated unannounced unanswerable unanswered unanticipated unapologetic unappealing unappeased unappetising unappreciated unappreciative unapproachable unapproved unapt unarchived unarguable unarguably unarm unarmed unarms unaroused unarticulated unary unashamed unashamedly unasked unassailable unassailed unassertive unassigned unassisted unassociated unassuaged unassuming unattached unattainable unattainably unattained unattended unattenuated unattractive unattractiveness unattributable unattributed unaudited unauthenticated unauthorised unavailability unavailable unavailing unavailingly unavenged unavoidable unavoidably unawakened unaware unawareness unawares unawed unbalance unbalanced unbalances unbalancing unbanned unbanning unbaptised unbar unbarred unbars unbearable unbearably unbeatable unbeaten unbecoming unbeknown unbeknownst unbelievability unbelievable unbelievably unbelieved unbeliever unbelievers unbelieving unbend unbending unbent unbiased unbiasedly unbiassed unbiassedly unbidden unbind unbleached unblemished unblinking unblinkingly unblock unblocked unblocking unbloodied unboiled unbolt unbolted unbooked unborn unbosom unbothered unbound unbounded unbowed unbraced unbracketed unbranded unbreakability unbreakable unbridgeable unbridged unbridled unbroken unbruised unbuckle unbuckled unbuckling unbundled unburden unburdened unburdening unburied unburned unburnt unbutton unbuttoned unbuttoning uncalibrated uncalled uncancelled uncannily uncanny uncapped uncared uncaring uncased uncatalogued uncaught unceasing unceasingly uncelebrated uncensored unceremoniously uncertain uncertainly uncertainties uncertainty unchain unchained unchaining unchallengeable unchallenged unchangeable unchanged unchanging unchaperoned uncharacteristic uncharacteristically uncharged uncharismatic uncharitable uncharitably uncharted unchartered uncheckable unchecked unchristened unchristian unchronicled uncircumcised uncivil uncivilised unclad unclaimed unclasped unclasping unclassifiable unclassified uncle unclean uncleanliness uncleanly unclear uncleared unclench unclenched unclenching uncles unclesam unclimbable unclimbed unclog unclosed unclothed unclouded uncluttered uncoil uncoiled uncoiling uncoils uncollated uncollected uncollimated uncombed uncomely uncomfortable uncomfortableness uncomfortably uncommitted uncommon uncommonly uncommunicative uncompetitive uncompetitiveness uncompilable uncomplaining uncomplainingly uncompleted uncomplicated uncomplimentary uncomprehending uncomprehendingly uncompressed uncompromisable uncompromising uncompromisingly unconcern unconcerned unconcernedly unconditional unconditionally unconditioned unconfined unconfirmed unconfused uncongenial unconnected unconquerable unconquered unconscionable unconscionably unconscious unconsciously unconsciousness unconsecrated unconsidered unconsoled unconstitutional unconstitutionally unconstrained unconsumed uncontainable uncontaminated uncontentious uncontested uncontrollable uncontrollably uncontrolled uncontroversial uncontroversially unconventional unconventionally unconverted unconvinced unconvincing unconvincingly uncooked uncooperative uncoordinated uncorked uncorrectable uncorrected uncorrelated uncorroborated uncorrupted uncountable uncountably uncounted uncouple uncoupled uncouth uncouthness uncover uncovered uncovering uncovers uncrackable uncreased uncreated uncreative uncredited uncritical uncritically uncross uncrossable uncrossed uncrowded uncrowned uncrushable unction unctuous unctuously uncultivated uncultured uncured uncurled uncut undamaged undated undaunted undead undeceived undecidability undecidable undecided undeclared undecorated undefeated undefended undefiled undefinable undefined undeliverable undelivered undemanding undemocratic undemocratically undemonstrative undeniable undeniably under underachievement underachieving underarm underbelly underbody undercarriage underclass underclothes underclothing undercoat undercoating undercooked undercover undercroft undercurrent undercurrents undercut undercuts undercutting underdeveloped underdevelopment underdog underdogs underdone undereducated underemphasis underemployment underestimate underestimated underestimates underestimating underestimation underexploited underfed underfloor underflow underfoot underframe underfund underfunded underfunding undergarment undergarments undergo undergoes undergoing undergone undergraduate undergraduates underground undergrounds undergrowth underhand underinvestment underlain underlay underlie underlies underline underlined underlines underling underlings underlining underlinings underloaded underlying undermanned undermine undermined undermines undermining underneath undernourished undernourishment underpaid underpants underparts underpass underpay underpaying underperformance underperformed underpin underpinned underpinning underpinnings underpins underplay underplayed underplays underpopulated underpopulation underpowered underpriced underpricing underprivileged underrate underrated underscored undersea underside undersides undersigned undersized underskirt understaffed understand understandability understandable understandably understander understanding understandingly understandings understands understate understated understatement understates understating understocked understood understorey understudy undertake undertaken undertaker undertakers undertakes undertaking undertakings undertone undertones undertook underutilised undervalued undervalues undervaluing underwater underwear underweight underwent underwood underworld underwrite underwriter underwriters underwrites underwriting underwritten underwrote undeserved undeservedly undeserving undesirability undesirable undesirables undesirably undesired undetectability undetectable undetectably undetected undetermined undeterred undetonated undeveloped undiagnosable undiagnosed undid undifferentiated undigested undignified undiluted undiminished undiplomatic undirected undiscerning undisciplined undisclosed undiscovered undiscriminated undiscriminating undisguised undisguisedly undismayed undisplayed undisputed undissipated undistinguished undistorted undistributed undisturbed undivided undo undocumented undoing undoings undomesticated undone undoubted undoubtedly undress undressed undressing undrinkability undrinkable undroppable undue undulate undulated undulates undulating undulation undulations unduly undying unearned unearth unearthed unearthing unearthly unearths unease uneasier uneasiest uneasily uneasiness uneasy uneatable uneaten uneconomic uneconomical unedifying unedited uneducated unelectable unelected unemotional unemotionally unemployable unemployed unemployment unencrypted unencumbered unending unendingly unendurable unenforceable unengaged unenlightened unenlightening unentered unenthusiastic unenthusiastically unenviable unequal unequalled unequally unequivocal unequivocally unergonomic unerring unerringly unescorted unestablished unethical unethically unevaluated uneven unevenly unevenness uneventful uneventfully unexacting unexamined unexceptionable unexceptional unexcited unexciting unexpanded unexpected unexpectedly unexpectedness unexpired unexplainable unexplained unexploded unexploited unexplored unexpressed unexpurgated unfailing unfailingly unfair unfairly unfairness unfaithful unfaithfulness unfalsifiable unfamiliar unfamiliarity unfancied unfashionable unfashionably unfasten unfastened unfastening unfathomable unfathomed unfatigued unfavourable unfavourably unfavoured unfeasible unfeasibly unfed unfeeling unfeelingly unfeigned unfelt unfeminine unfenced unfertilised unfetchable unfettered unfilled unfinished unfired unfirm unfit unfitness unfits unfitting unfix unfixed unflagging unflattering unflawed unfledged unflinching unflinchingly unfocused unfocussed unfold unfolded unfolding unfolds unforced unfordable unforeseeable unforeseen unforgettable unforgivable unforgivably unforgiven unforgiving unformed unforthcoming unfortunate unfortunately unfortunates unfounded unfreeze unfreezing unfrequented unfriendlier unfriendliest unfriendliness unfriendly unfrozen unfruitful unfulfillable unfulfilled unfunded unfunny unfurl unfurled unfurling unfurls unfurnished unfussy ungainly ungenerous ungenerously ungentlemanly ungerminated unglamorous unglazed ungodly ungovernable ungoverned ungraceful ungracious ungraciously ungrammatical ungrateful ungratefully ungrounded unguarded unguessable unguided ungulates unhampered unhand unhandy unhappier unhappiest unhappily unhappiness unhappy unharmed unhealthier unhealthiest unhealthily unhealthy unheard unheated unheeded unhelpful unhelpfully unheralded unheroic unhesitating unhesitatingly unhidden unhindered unhinge unhinged unholy unhonoured unhook unhooked unhooks unhoped unhuman unhurried unhurriedly unhurt unhygienic unhyphenated unicameral unicellular unicorn unicorns unicycle unicycles unicyclist unicyclists unideal unidentifiable unidentified unidirectional unifiable unification unified unifier unifies uniform uniformed uniformity uniformly uniforms unify unifying unilateral unilateralism unilateralist unilaterally unillustrated unimaginable unimaginably unimaginative unimaginatively unimagined unimpaired unimpeachable unimpeded unimplementable unimplemented unimportance unimportant unimpressed unimpressive unimproved unincorporated uninfected uninfluenced uninformative uninformatively uninformed uninhabitable uninhabited uninhibited uninhibitedly uninitialised uninitiated uninjured uninspired uninspiring uninsulated uninsurable uninsured unintellectual unintelligent unintelligible unintended unintentional unintentionally uninterested uninterestedly uninteresting uninterpretable uninterpreted uninterrupted uninterruptedly unintuitive uninvented uninvited uninviting uninvolved union unionisation unionised unionism unionist unionists unions unipolar unique uniquely uniqueness unisex unison unisons unissued unit unitary unite united unites unities uniting units unity universal universalism universalist universality universally universals universe universes universities university unjam unjammed unjamming unjaundiced unjust unjustifiable unjustifiably unjustified unjustly unjustness unkempt unkept unkind unkindest unkindly unkindness unknightly unknowable unknowing unknowingly unknown unknowns unlabelled unlace unlaced unlacing unladen unladylike unlamented unlatching unlawful unlawfully unlawfulness unleaded unlearn unlearned unleash unleashed unleashes unleashing unleavened unless unlicensed unlike unlikeable unlikeliest unlikelihood unlikeliness unlikely unlimited unlined unlink unlinked unlisted unlit unload unloaded unloading unloads unlock unlocked unlocking unlocks unloose unlovable unloved unlovely unloving unluckier unluckiest unluckily unlucky unmade unmagnified unmaintainable unmaintained unmaking unmanageable unmanageably unmanly unmanned unmannerly unmapped unmarked unmarried unmask unmasked unmasks unmatchable unmatched unmeasurable unmechanised unmeetable unmelodious unmemorable unmemorised unmentionable unmentionables unmentioned unmercifully unmerited unmet unmissable unmistakable unmistakably unmistakeable unmistakeably unmitigated unmixed unmnemonic unmodifiable unmodified unmolested unmonitored unmotivated unmounted unmoved unmoving unmusical unmusically unmutilated unmuzzled unnamed unnatural unnaturally unnavigable unnecessarily unnecessary unneeded unnerve unnerved unnerving unnervingly unnoted unnoticeable unnoticed unnumbered unobjectionable unobliging unobservable unobservant unobserved unobstructed unobtainable unobtrusive unobtrusively unoccupied unofficial unofficially unopened unopposed unoptimised unordered unorganised unoriginal unoriginality unorthodox unorthodoxy unowned unpack unpacked unpackers unpacking unpacks unpaid unpainted unpaired unpalatable unparalleled unpardonable unparodied unpasted unpasteurised unpatriotic unpaved unpeeled unperceived unpersonalised unpersuaded unpersuasive unperturbed unphysical unpick unpicked unpicking unplaced unplanned unplayability unplayable unpleasant unpleasantly unpleasantness unpleasing unploughed unplug unplugged unplugging unpoetical unpolished unpolluted unpopular unpopularity unpopulated unportable unpractical unpractised unprecedented unprecedentedly unpredictability unpredictable unpredictably unpredicted unprejudiced unpremeditated unprepared unpreparedness unprepossessing unpressurised unpretending unpretentious unprincipled unprintable unprinted unprivileged unproblematic unprocessed unproductive unprofessional unprofitable unprofitably unpromising unprompted unpronounceable unpronounced unprotected unprovable unproved unproven unprovoked unpublicised unpublishable unpublished unpunctual unpunctuality unpunished unqualified unquantifiable unquantified unquenchable unquestionable unquestionably unquestioned unquestioning unquestioningly unquiet unquote unquoted unraisable unravel unravelled unravelling unravels unreachable unreached unread unreadability unreadable unready unreal unrealisable unrealised unrealistic unrealistically unreality unreasonable unreasonableness unreasonably unreasoned unreasoning unreceived unreceptive unrecognisable unrecognisably unrecognised unrecommended unreconciled unreconstructed unrecorded unrecoverable unredeemed unreduced unrefereed unreferenced unreferencing unrefined unreflected unreformed unrefreshed unrefrigerated unregarded unregenerate unregistered unregulated unrehearsed unrelated unreleasable unreleased unrelenting unrelentingly unreliability unreliable unreliably unrelieved unremarkable unremarked unremembered unremitting unremittingly unrepairable unrepeatability unrepeatable unrepeated unrepentant unrepentantly unreported unrepresentable unrepresentative unrepresented unreproducible unrequested unrequited unreserved unreservedly unresisting unresistingly unresolvable unresolved unresponsive unresponsiveness unrest unrestrained unrestricted unrests unrevealed unrevealing unrevised unrewarded unrewarding unriddle unripe unrivalled unroll unrolled unrolling unromantic unruffled unruliness unruly unsaddled unsafe unsafely unsafeness unsaid unsaleable unsalted unsanitary unsatisfactorily unsatisfactoriness unsatisfactory unsatisfiable unsatisfied unsatisfying unsaturated unsaved unsavory unsavoury unscaled unscathed unscheduled unscientific unscramble unscrambled unscrambles unscrambling unscratched unscrew unscrewed unscrewing unscripted unscrupulous unseal unsealable unsealed unsealing unseasonable unseasonably unseasonal unseat unseated unseaworthiness unsecured unseeded unseeing unseeingly unseemly unseen unselected unselfconscious unselfconsciously unselfish unselfishly unselfishness unsellable unsensational unsent unsentimental unserviceable unserviced unset unsettle unsettled unsettling unshackled unshaded unshakable unshakeable unshaken unshaped unshapen unsharable unshared unshaved unshaven unsheathed unshielded unshockable unshod unshorn unshrinking unsighted unsightly unsigned unsimplified unsinkable unskilful unskilled unsliced unsmiling unsmilingly unsmooth unsociable unsocial unsoiled unsold unsolder unsolicited unsolvable unsolved unsophisticated unsophistication unsorted unsought unsound unsoundness unspanned unspeakable unspeakably unspecialised unspecific unspecified unspectacular unspent unspoiled unspoilt unspoken unsporting unstable unstack unstacked unstacking unstained unstamped unstated unsteadily unsteadiness unsteady unsterilised unsticking unstimulated unstinting unstintingly unstirred unstoppable unstoppably unstopped unstrapped unstressed unstretchable unstructured unstuck unsubdued unsubsidised unsubstantial unsubstantiated unsubstituted unsubtle unsubtly unsuccessful unsuccessfully unsuitability unsuitable unsuitableness unsuitably unsuited unsullied unsung unsupervised unsupportable unsupported unsuppressed unsure unsureness unsurfaced unsurpassable unsurpassed unsurprised unsurprising unsurprisingly unsurvivable unsuspected unsuspecting unsustainable unswappable unsweetened unswerving unswervingly unsympathetic unsympathetically unsystematic untactful untagged untainted untalented untamed untangle untangled untangling untapped untarnished untasted untaught untaxed untaxing untempered untenability untenable untended unterminated untestable untested untethered untextured unthinkable unthinkably unthinking unthinkingly unthoughtful untidier untidiest untidily untidiness untidy untie untied unties until untimely untiring untitled unto untold untouchable untouchables untouched untoward untraceable untraced untrained untrammelled untransformed untranslatable untranslated untransportable untrappable untreatable untreated untried untrodden untroubled untrue untrusted untrustworthy untrusty untruth untruthful untruthfully untruths unturned untutored untwist untwisted untying untyped untypical untypically unusable unusably unused unusual unusually unutterable unutterably unvalidated unvalued unvanquished unvarnished unvarying unvaryingly unveil unveiled unveiling unveils unventilated unverifiable unverified unversed unvisitable unvisited unvoiced unwanted unwarily unwarmed unwarned unwarrantable unwarrantably unwarranted unwary unwashed unwatchable unwatched unwavering unwaveringly unweaned unwearied unweary unwed unwedded unwedge unweighted unwelcome unwelcoming unwell unwholesome unwieldy unwilling unwillingly unwillingness unwind unwindable unwinding unwinds unwisdom unwise unwisely unwisest unwitting unwittingly unwontedly unworkability unworkable unworldly unworn unworried unworthily unworthiness unworthy unwound unwounded unwrap unwrapped unwrapping unwraps unwritten unyielding unzip unzipped unzipping unzips up upbeat upbraid upbraided upbraiding upbraids upbringing upbringings upcast upcoming updatability update updated updater updates updating upended upfield upfront upgradable upgrade upgradeable upgraded upgrades upgrading upgradings upheaval upheavals upheld uphill uphold upholder upholders upholding upholds upholster upholstered upholsterer upholsterers upholstery upkeep upland uplands uplift uplifted uplifting uplifts uplink uplinks upload uploaded uploads upmarket upmost upon upped upper uppercase upperclass uppercut uppermost uppers upraised uprate uprated uprating upright uprightly uprightness uprights uprise uprising uprisings upriver uproar uproarious uproariously uproars uproo uproot uprooted uprooting uproots ups upset upsets upsetting upshot upside upsidedown upsilon upstage upstaged upstages upstaging upstairs upstanding upstart upstarts upstream upsurge upsurges upswing uptake upthrust uptotheminute uptown upturn upturned upward upwardly upwards upwind uranium uranus urban urbane urbanely urbanisation urbanise urbanised urbanising urbanites urbanity urchin urchins urea ureter ureters urethane urethra urethrae urethral urethras urethritis urge urged urgency urgent urgently urges urging urgings urinary urine urn urns urologist ursine urticaria uruguay us usability usable usage usages usances use useable used useful usefully usefulness useless uselessly uselessness user userfriendliness userfriendly users uses usher ushered usherette ushering ushers using usual usually usurer usurers usurious usurp usurpation usurped usurper usurping usury utah utensil utensils uteri uterine uterus utilisation utilise utilised utilises utilising utilitarian utilitarianism utilitarians utilities utility utmost utopia utopian utopians utopias utter utterance utterances uttered utterer uttering utterly uttermost utters uturns uvula uvular vacancies vacancy vacant vacantly vacate vacated vacates vacating vacation vacations vaccinate vaccinated vaccinating vaccination vaccinations vaccine vaccines vacillate vacillating vacillation vacillations vacua vacuity vacuole vacuoles vacuous vacuously vacuum vacuums vaduz vagabond vagabonds vagrancy vagrant vagrants vague vaguely vagueness vaguer vaguest vain vainer vainest vainglorious vainglory vainly valance vale valediction valedictory valence valencies valency valentine vales valet valets valhalla valiant valiantly valid validate validated validates validating validation validity validly valise valley valleys valour valuable valuables valuation valuations value valueadded valued valueformoney valueless valuer valuers values valuing valuta valve valves vamp vamped vamper vamping vampire vampires vamps van vanadium vandal vandalise vandalised vandalising vandalism vandals vane vaned vanes vangogh vanguard vanilla vanish vanished vanishes vanishing vanishingly vanities vanity vanquish vanquished vanquishing vans vantage vapid vaporisation vaporise vaporised vaporising vaporous vapour vapours variability variable variables variably variance variances variant variants variate variates variation variational variations varicose varied variegated varies varietal varieties variety various variously varnish varnished varnishes varnishing varsity vary varying vascular vase vasectomies vasectomy vaseline vases vassal vassalage vassals vast vaster vastly vastness vat vatican vats vault vaulted vaulting vaults vaunted vaunting veal vector vectored vectoring vectorisation vectorised vectors veer veered veering veers veg vegan vegans vegetable vegetables vegetarian vegetarianism vegetarians vegetate vegetated vegetating vegetation vegetational vegetative vegetive veggies vehemence vehement vehemently vehicle vehicles vehicular veil veiled veiling veils vein veined veins velar veld veldt vellum velocipede velocities velocity velodrome velour velum velvet velveteen velveteens velvets velvety venal venality vend venders vendetta vendettas vending vendor vendors vends veneer veneered veneers venerable venerate venerated venerates venerating veneration venereal venetian vengeance vengeful vengefully venial venice venison venom venomous venomously venoms venose venous vent vented ventilate ventilated ventilating ventilation ventilator ventilators venting ventings ventral ventrally ventricle ventricles ventricular ventriloquism ventriloquist ventriloquists ventriloquy vents venture ventured venturer ventures venturesome venturing venue venues venus veracity veranda verandah verandahs verandas verb verbal verbalise verbally verbals verbatim verbiage verbose verbosely verboseness verbosity verbs verdant verdict verdicts verdigris verdure verge verged verger verges verging verifiability verifiable verification verifications verified verifier verifiers verifies verify verifying verily verisimilitude veritable veritably verities verity vermilion vermin verminous vernacular vernal vernier verona versatile versatility verse versed verses versicle versification versifier version versions versus vertebra vertebrae vertebral vertebrate vertebrates vertex vertical verticality vertically verticals vertices vertiginous vertigo verve very vesicle vesicles vesicular vespers vessel vessels vest vestal vested vestibular vestibule vestibules vestige vestiges vestigial vesting vestment vestments vestry vests vesuvius vet veteran veterans veterinary veto vetoed vetoing vets vetted vetting vex vexation vexations vexatious vexed vexes vexing via viability viable viably viaduct viaducts vial vials vibes vibrancy vibrant vibrantly vibrate vibrated vibrates vibrating vibration vibrational vibrationally vibrations vibrato vibrator vibrators vibratory vicar vicarage vicarages vicarious vicariously vicars vice vicechancellor vicechancellors vicepresidency vicepresident vicepresidential vicepresidents viceroy viceroys vices vicinities vicinity vicious viciously viciousness vicissitude vicissitudes victim victimisation victimise victimised victimises victimising victimless victims victor victoria victories victorious victoriously victors victory victualling victuals video videoconferencing videodisc videoed videoing videophone videos videotape videotaped videotapes videotaping vie vied vienna vier vies view viewable viewed viewer viewers viewfinder viewfinders viewing viewings viewpoint viewpoints views vigil vigilance vigilant vigilante vigilantes vigilantly vigils vignette vignettes vigorous vigorously vigour viking vikings vile vilely vileness viler vilest vilification vilified vilify vilifying villa village villager villagers villages villain villainous villains villainy villas vim vims vindicate vindicated vindicates vindicating vindication vindictive vindictively vindictiveness vine vinegar vinegars vines vineyard vineyards vino vintage vintages vintner vinyl vinyls viol viola violas violate violated violates violating violation violations violator violators violence violent violently violet violets violin violinist violinists violins violist viper vipers virago viral virgil virgin virginal virginia virginity virgins virile virility virology virtual virtually virtue virtues virtuosi virtuosic virtuosity virtuoso virtuous virtuously virulence virulent virulently virus viruses visa visage visas viscose viscosity viscount viscounts viscous vise visibilities visibility visible visibly vision visionaries visionary visions visit visitable visitant visitation visitations visited visiting visitor visitors visits visor visors vista vistas visual visualisation visualise visualised visualising visually visuals vital vitalise vitality vitally vitals vitamin vitamins vitiate vitiated vitiates vitiating vitreous vitrified vitriol vitriolic vituperate vituperation vituperative viva vivacious vivaciously vivacity vivid vividly vividness vivified vivisected vivisection vivisectionist vivisectionists vixen vixens vizier vocabularies vocabulary vocal vocalisation vocalisations vocalise vocalised vocalising vocalist vocalists vocally vocals vocation vocational vocationally vocations vocative vociferous vociferously vodka vogue voice voiced voiceless voices voicing voicings void voidable voided voiding voids voile volatile volatiles volatility volcanic volcanically volcanism volcano vole voles volga volition volley volleyball volleyed volleying volleys volt voltage voltages voltmeter volts volubility voluble volubly volume volumes volumetric voluminous voluntarily voluntary volunteer volunteered volunteering volunteers voluptuous voluptuously voluptuousness volute vomit vomited vomiting vomits voodoo voracious voraciously voracity vortex vortexes vortices vorticity vote voted voteless voter voters votes voting votive vouch vouched voucher vouchers vouches vouchsafe vouchsafed vouchsafing vow vowed vowel vowels vowing vows voyage voyaged voyager voyagers voyages voyaging voyeur voyeurism voyeuristic voyeurs vulcan vulcanise vulcanised vulcanism vulcanologist vulgar vulgarities vulgarity vulgarly vulgate vulnerabilities vulnerability vulnerable vulpine vulture vultures vulva vying wackier wacky wad wadding waddle waddled waddles waddling wade waded wader waders wades wadi wading wadings wadis wads wafer wafers waffle waffled waffles waft wafted wafting wafts wafture wag wage waged wager wagered wagerer wagers wages wagged waggery wagging waggish waggishly waggle waggled waggles waggling waggly waggoners waggons waging wagon wagons wags wagtail wagtails waif waifs wail wailed wailer wailing wails wainscot wainscoting waist waistband waistcoat waistcoats waistline waists wait waited waiter waiters waiting waitress waitresses waits waive waived waiver waivers waives waiving wake waked wakeful wakefulness waken wakened wakening wakens wakes waking wales walk walkable walkabout walkabouts walked walker walkers walkietalkie walkietalkies walking walkout walkover walks walkway walkways wall wallabies wallaby wallchart walled wallet wallets wallflower wallflowers walling wallop wallow wallowed wallowing wallows wallpaper wallpapering wallpapers walls walltowall walnut walnuts walrus walruses waltz waltzed waltzes waltzing wan wand wander wandered wanderer wanderers wandering wanderings wanderlust wanders wands wane waned wanes waning wanly want wanted wanting wanton wantonly wantonness wants wapiti wapitis war warble warbled warbler warblers warbles warbling ward warded warden wardens warder warders warding wardrobe wardrobes wards wardship ware warehouse warehoused warehouseman warehousemen warehouses warehousing wares warfare warhead warheads warhorse warhorses wariest warily wariness waring warlike warlock warlocks warlord warlords warm warmblooded warmed warmer warmers warmest warmhearted warmheartedness warming warmish warmly warmness warmonger warms warmth warmup warn warned warners warning warningly warnings warns warp warpaint warpath warped warping warplanes warps warrant warranted warranties warranting warrants warranty warred warren warrens warring warrior warriors wars warsaw warship warships wart warthog warthogs wartime warts warty wary was wash washable washbasin washbasins washboard washday washed washer washers washerwoman washerwomen washes washing washings washington washout washstand washy wasp waspish waspishly wasps waspwaisted wast wastage wastages waste wasted wasteful wastefully wastefulness wasteland wastelands wastepaper waster wasters wastes wasting wastings wastrel watch watchable watchdog watchdogs watched watcher watchers watches watchful watchfully watchfulness watching watchmaker watchmakers watchman watchmen watchtower watchtowers watchword watchwords water waterbed waterbeds watercolour watercolourists watercolours watercooled watercourse watercourses watercress watered waterfall waterfalls waterfowl waterfront waterglass waterhole waterholes watering waterless waterline waterlogged waterloo waterman watermark watermarks watermelon watermelons watermen watermill watermills waterproof waterproofed waterproofing waterproofs waterresistant waters watershed watersheds waterside waterskiing watersoluble waterspouts watertable watertight waterway waterways waterwheel waterwheels waterworks watery watt wattage wattle watts wave waveband wavebands waved waveform waveforms wavefront waveguide waveguides wavelength wavelengths wavelet wavelets wavelike waver wavered waverers wavering wavers waves wavier waviest wavily waving wavings wavy wax waxed waxen waxes waxing waxpaper waxwork waxworks waxy way wayout ways wayside wayward waywardly waywardness we weak weaken weakened weakening weakens weaker weakest weakish weakkneed weakling weaklings weakly weakminded weakness weaknesses weal wealth wealthier wealthiest wealthy wean weaned weaning weanling weans weapon weaponry weapons wear wearable wearer wearers wearied wearier wearies weariest wearily weariness wearing wearisome wears weary wearying wearyingly weasel weaselling weaselly weasels weather weatherbeaten weatherbound weathercock weathercocks weathered weathering weatherman weathermen weatherproof weathers weathervane weatherworn weave weaved weaver weavers weaves weaving weavings web webbed webbing webby webfoot webs website wed wedded wedding weddings wedge wedged wedges wedging wedlock weds wee weed weeded weedier weediest weeding weedkiller weedkillers weeds weedy week weekday weekdays weekend weekenders weekends weeklies weekly weeks ween weeny weep weeper weeping weepings weeps weepy weevil weevils weigh weighbridge weighed weighing weighs weight weighted weightier weightiest weightily weighting weightings weightless weightlessly weightlessness weightlifter weightlifters weightlifting weights weighty weir weird weirder weirdest weirdly weirdness weirdo weirs welcome welcomed welcomer welcomes welcoming weld welded welder welders welding welds welfare well welladjusted wellbalanced wellbehaved wellbeing wellbeloved wellborn wellbred wellbuilt wellchosen wellconnected welldefined welldeserved welldesigned welldeveloped welldisposed welldressed wellearned welled welleducated wellendowed wellequipped wellestablished wellfed wellformed wellfounded wellgrounded wellhead wellinformed welling wellington wellingtons wellintentioned wellkept wellknown wellliked wellloved wellmade wellmannered wellmarked wellmatched wellmeaning wellmeant welloff wellordered wellorganised wellpaid wellplaced wellprepared wellpreserved wellread wellreceived wellrounded wells wellspoken wellstructured wellsupported welltaken wellthoughtout welltimed welltodo welltried wellused wellwisher wellwishers wellworn welly welsh welshman welt welter weltering welters welterweight welts wench wenches wend wended wending wends went wept were werewolf werewolves west westbound westerly western westerner westerners westernisation westernised westernmost westerns westward westwards wet wether wetland wetlands wetly wetness wets wetsuit wetsuits wettable wetted wetter wettest wetting whack whacked whacker whacko whacks whale whalebone whaler whalers whales whaling wham whap wharf wharfs wharves what whatever whatnot whatsoever wheals wheat wheatears wheaten wheatgerm wheats whee wheedle wheedled wheedling wheel wheelbarrow wheelbarrows wheelbase wheelchair wheelchairs wheeled wheeler wheelers wheelhouse wheelie wheeling wheels wheelwright wheelwrights wheeze wheezed wheezes wheezing wheezy whelk whelked whelks whelp when whence whenever where whereabouts whereas whereby wherefore wherefores wherein whereof whereon wheresoever whereto whereupon wherever wherewith wherewithal wherry whet whether whetstone whetstones whetted whetting whey which whichever whiff whiffs while whiled whiles whiling whilst whim whimper whimpered whimpering whimpers whims whimsical whimsically whimsy whine whined whines whining whinnied whinny whinnying whip whipcord whiplash whipped whipper whippet whippets whipping whippy whips whir whirl whirled whirligig whirling whirlpool whirlpools whirls whirlwind whirlwinds whirr whirred whirring whisk whisked whisker whiskers whiskery whiskey whiskeys whiskies whisking whisks whisky whisper whispered whisperers whispering whisperings whispers whist whistle whistled whistler whistles whistling whists white whitebait whiteboards whitecollar whitely whiten whitened whitener whiteness whitening whitens whiter whites whitest whitewash whitewashed whitewashing whither whiting whitish whittle whittled whittling whizkids whizz whizzkid who whoa whodunit whodunnit whoever whole wholefood wholegrain wholehearted wholeheartedly wholemeal wholeness wholes wholesale wholesaler wholesalers wholesaling wholesome wholesomely wholesomeness wholewheat wholly whom whomever whomsoever whoop whooped whooping whoops whoosh whop whore whorehouse whores whoring whorled whorls whose whosoever why whys wick wicked wickedest wickedly wickedness wicker wickerwork wicket wicketkeeper wicketkeepers wicketkeeping wickets wicks wide wideeyed widely widen widened wideness widening widens wideopen wider wideranging wides widescreen widespread widest widgeon widget widow widowed widower widowers widowhood widows width widths wield wielded wielder wielding wields wife wifeless wifely wig wigeon wigeons wigging wiggle wiggled wiggler wiggles wiggling wigs wigwam wigwams wild wildcat wildcats wildebeest wilder wilderness wildernesses wildest wildeyed wildfire wildfires wildfowl wildlife wildly wildness wildoats wilds wile wiles wilful wilfully wilfulness wilier wiliest wiling will willed willing willingly willingness willow willows willowy willpower wills willynilly wilt wilted wilting wilts wily wimp wimple wimpy win wince winced winces winch winched winches winching wincing wind windbag windbags windbreak windcheater windcheaters winded winder winders windfall windfalls windier windiest windily winding windings windlass windless windmill windmills window windowed windowing windowless windows windowshop windowshopping windpipe winds windscreen windscreens windsock windsor windsurf windsurfer windsurfers windsurfing windswept windward windy wine wined wineglass wineglasses winemakers winery wines wineskin wing winged winger wingers winging wingless wings wingspan wining wink winked winker winkers winking winkle winkled winkles winks winnable winner winners winning winningly winnings winnow winnowing wins winsome winter wintered wintering winters wintertime wintery wintrier wintriest wintry wipe wiped wiper wipers wipes wiping wire wired wireless wirer wires wirier wiriest wiring wirings wiry wisdom wisdoms wise wisecracks wiseguys wisely wiser wisest wish wishbone wished wishes wishful wishfully wishing wishywashy wisp wisps wispy wistful wistfully wistfulness wit witch witchcraft witchdoctor witchdoctors witchery witches witchhunt witchhunts witchlike with withdraw withdrawal withdrawals withdrawing withdrawn withdraws withdrew wither withered withering witheringly withers withheld withhold withholding withholds within without withstand withstanding withstands withstood witless witness witnessed witnesses witnessing wits witter wittering witticism witticisms wittier wittiest wittily wittiness witting wittingly witty wives wizard wizardry wizards wizened woad wobble wobbled wobbler wobbles wobblier wobbliest wobbling wobbly wodan wodge woe woebegone woeful woefully woes wok woke woken woks wold wolds wolf wolfcubs wolfed wolfhound wolfhounds wolfish wolfishly wolfwhistles wolves woman womanhood womanise womaniser womanish womanising womankind womanliness womanly womans womb wombat wombats wombs women womenfolk won wonder wondered wonderful wonderfully wonderfulness wondering wonderingly wonderland wonderment wonders wondrous wondrously wont woo wood woodbine woodcock woodcocks woodcut woodcuts woodcutter woodcutters wooded wooden woodenly woodenness woodland woodlands woodlice woodlouse woodman woodmen woodpecker woodpeckers woodpile woods woodshed woodsman woodsmoke woodwind woodwork woodworker woodworkers woodworking woodworm woody wooed wooer woof woofer woofers wooing wool woollen woollens woollier woollies woollike woolliness woolly wools wooly woos word wordage worded wordgame wordier wordiest wordiness wording wordings wordless wordlessly wordplay wordprocessing words wordsmith wordy wore work workability workable workaday workbench workbook workbooks workday workdays worked worker workers workfare workforce workforces workhorse workhorses workhouse workhouses working workings workless workload workloads workman workmanlike workmanship workmate workmates workmen workout workouts workpeople workpiece workpieces workplace workplaces workroom workrooms works worksheet worksheets workshop workshops workshy workspace workstation workstations worktop worktops workweek world worldclass worldfamous worldliness worldly worlds worldwar worldwide worm wormhole wormholes worming wormlike worms wormy worn worried worriedly worrier worriers worries worrisome worry worrying worryingly worse worsen worsened worsening worsens worser worship worshipful worshipped worshipper worshippers worshipping worships worst worsted worth worthier worthies worthiest worthily worthiness worthless worthlessness worthwhile worthy would wound wounded wounding wounds wove woven wow wowed wows wrack wracked wraith wraiths wrangle wrangled wrangler wrangles wrangling wrap wraparound wrapped wrapper wrappers wrapping wrappings wraps wrasse wrath wrathful wrathfully wraths wreak wreaked wreaking wreaks wreath wreathe wreathed wreathes wreathing wreaths wreck wreckage wrecked wrecker wreckers wrecking wrecks wren wrench wrenched wrenches wrenching wrens wrest wrested wresting wrestle wrestled wrestler wrestlers wrestles wrestling wretch wretched wretchedly wretchedness wretches wriggle wriggled wriggles wriggling wriggly wright wring wringer wringing wrings wrinkle wrinkled wrinkles wrinkling wrinkly wrist wristband wristbands wrists wristwatch writ writable write writer writers writes writhe writhed writhes writhing writing writings writs written wrong wrongdoer wrongdoers wrongdoing wrongdoings wronged wronger wrongest wrongful wrongfully wronging wrongly wrongness wrongs wrote wrought wroughtiron wrung wry wryly wryness wunderkind xenon xenophobe xenophobia xenophobic xerography xhosa xhosas xmas xray xrayed xraying xrays xylophone xylophonist yacht yachting yachts yachtsman yachtsmen yak yaks yale yalelock yam yams yank yankee yankees yanks yap yapping yaps yard yardage yards yardstick yardsticks yarn yarns yaw yawed yawl yawls yawn yawned yawning yawningly yawns yaws ye yea yeah yeaned year yearbook yearbooks yearling yearlings yearlong yearly yearn yearned yearning yearningly yearnings yearns years yeas yeast yeasts yeasty yell yelled yelling yellings yellow yellowed yellower yellowing yellowish yellows yellowy yells yelp yelped yelping yelpings yelps yemen yen yens yeoman yeomanry yeomen yep yes yesterday yesterdays yesteryear yet yeti yetis yew yews yiddish yield yielded yielding yields yip yippee yodel yodelled yodeller yodelling yodels yoga yogi yoke yoked yokel yokels yokes yolk yolks yon yonder yore york yorker yorkers you young younger youngest youngish youngster youngsters your yours yourself yourselves youth youthful youthfulness youths yowl yoyo yrs yttrium yuck yukon yule yuletide yummiest yummy yuppie yuppies zag zaire zambezi zambia zambian zambians zaniest zany zanzibar zap zapping zappy zaps zeal zealot zealotry zealots zealous zealously zealousness zeals zebra zebras zebu zebus zees zenith zeniths zeolite zeolites zephyr zephyrs zeppelin zero zeroed zeroing zest zestfully zesty zeta zeus zig zigzag zigzagged zigzagging zigzags zillion zillions zimbabwe zinc zion zionism zionist zionists zip zipped zipper zippers zipping zippy zips zither zithers zombi zombie zombies zonal zonation zone zoned zones zoning zoo zookeepers zoological zoologist zoologists zoology zoom zoomed zooming zooms zooplankton zoos zulu zulus JDK JVM LTS async Async Asynchronous